Cellular non-nonlinear network model of microbial fuel cell ENDTITLE Cellular non-nonlinear network model of microbial fuel cell ENDTITLES A cellular non-linear network (CNN) is a uniform regular array of locally connected continuous-state machines, or nodes, which update their states simultaneously in discrete time. A microbial fuel cell (MFC) is an electro-chemical reactor using the metabolism of bacteria to drive an electrical current. In a CNN model of the MFC, each node takes a vector of states which represent geometrical characteristics of the cell, like the electrodes or impermeable borders, and quantify measurable properties like bacterial population, charges produced and hydrogen ions concentrations. The model allows the study of integral reaction of the MFC, including temporal outputs, to spatial disturbances of the bacterial population and supply of nutrients. The model can also be used to evaluate inhomogeneous configurations of bacterial populations attached on the electrode biofilms. ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Chaotic-Based Processor for Communication and Multimedia Applications ENDTITLE Chaotic-Based Processor for Communication and Multimedia Applications ENDTITLES Chaos is a phenomenon that attracted much attention in the past ten years. In this paper, we analyze chaos-based signal processing, and proposed a chaos processor to take advantage of chaos phenomenon. We also analyzed and demonstrated two of its practical applications in communication and sound synthesis. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
snthsnth ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Group analysis of general Burgers-Korteweg-de Vries equations ENDTITLE Group analysis of general Burgers-Korteweg-de Vries equations ENDTITLES The complete group classification problem for the class of (1+1)-dimensional $r$th order general variable-coefficient Burgers-Korteweg-de Vries equations is solved for arbitrary values of $r$ greater than or equal to two. We find the equivalence groupoids of this class and its various subclasses obtained by gauging equation coefficients with equivalence transformations. Showing that this class and certain gauged subclasses are normalized in the usual sense, we reduce the complete group classification problem for the entire class to that for the selected maximally gauged subclass, and it is the latter problem that is solved efficiently using the algebraic method of group classification. Similar studies are carried out for the two subclasses of equations with coefficients depending at most on the time or space variable, respectively. Applying an original technique, we classify Lie reductions of equations from the class under consideration with respect to its equivalence group. Studying of alternative gauges for equation coefficients with equivalence transformations allows us not only to justify the choice of the most appropriate gauge for the group classification but also to construct for the first time classes of differential equations with nontrivial generalized equivalence group such that equivalence-transformation components corresponding to equation variables locally depend on nonconstant arbitrary elements of the class. For the subclass of equations with coefficients depending at most on the time variable, which is normalized in the extended generalized sense, we explicitly construct its extended generalized equivalence group in a rigorous way. The new notion of effective generalized equivalence group is introduced. ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Particle-in-cell simulation of the third harmonic cavity F-Tube klystron ENDTITLE Particle-in-cell simulation of the third harmonic cavity F-Tube klystron ENDTITLES Use of a second harmonic and third harmonic cavity within a klystron to increase efficiency has been studied using particle-in-cell (PIC) code, MAGIC 2D. The six cavity device has a drive frequency of 1GHz, a predicted efficiency of 88%, 39 dB gain and an output power of 833 kW. The preliminary simulation results have revealed indications of bunching with bunch core oscillations. The initial results and analysis of the F-Tube PIC study are presented. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Studies on a 300 k pixel detector telescope ENDTITLE Studies on a 300 k pixel detector telescope ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Improved constraints on WIMPS from the International Germanium EXperiment IGEX ENDTITLE Improved constraints on WIMPS from the International Germanium EXperiment IGEX ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Chocs caractéristiques et ondes simples exceptionnelles pour les systèmes conservatifs à intégrale d'énergie: forme explicite de la solution ENDTITLES (Translated from the French abstract): A Legendre transformation of the field variables allows to write down the explicit form of the solution which highlights the part that results from the nonlinearity of the equations. Original French abstract: Une transformation de Legendre des variables du champ permet d'écrire la forme explicite de la solution qui met en évidence la partie qui résulte de la non-linéarité des équations. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Cryogenic detection techniques at the canfranc underground laboratory: The ROSEBUD experiment ENDTITLE Cryogenic detection techniques at the canfranc underground laboratory: The ROSEBUD experiment ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Cryogenic detection techniques at the canfranc underground laboratory: The ROSEBUD experiment ENDTITLE Cryogenic detection techniques at the canfranc underground laboratory: The ROSEBUD experiment ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Cryogenic detection techniques at the canfranc underground laboratory: The ROSEBUD experiment ENDTITLE Cryogenic detection techniques at the canfranc underground laboratory: The ROSEBUD experiment ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Cryogenic detection techniques at the canfranc underground laboratory: The ROSEBUD experiment ENDTITLE Cryogenic detection techniques at the canfranc underground laboratory: The ROSEBUD experiment ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
The importance of preventive feedback: inference from observations of the stellar masses and metallicities of Milky Way dwarf galaxies ENDTITLE The importance of preventive feedback: inference from observations of the stellar masses and metallicities of Milky Way dwarf galaxies ENDTITLES Dwarf galaxies are known to have remarkably low star formation efficiency due to strong feedback. Adopting the dwarf galaxies of the Milky Way as a laboratory, we explore a flexible semi-analytic galaxy formation model to understand how the feedback processes shape the satellite galaxies of the Milky Way. Using Markov-Chain Monte-Carlo, we exhaustively search a large parameter space of the model and rigorously show that the general wisdom of strong outflows as the primary feedback mechanism cannot simultaneously explain the stellar mass function and the mass--metallicity relation of the Milky Way satellites. An extended model that assumes that a fraction of baryons is prevented from collapsing into low-mass halos in the first place can be accurately constrained to simultaneously reproduce those observations. The inference suggests that two different physical mechanisms are needed to explain the two different data sets. In particular, moderate outflows with weak halo mass dependence are needed to explain the mass--metallicity relation, and prevention of baryons falling into shallow gravitational potentials of low-mass halos (e.g. "pre-heating") is needed to explain the low stellar mass fraction for a given subhalo mass. ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
The predicted luminous satellite populations around SMC and LMC-mass galaxies - A missing satellite problem around the LMC? ENDTITLE The predicted luminous satellite populations around SMC and LMC-mass galaxies - A missing satellite problem around the LMC? ENDTITLES Recent discovery of many dwarf satellite galaxies in the direction of the Small and Large Magellanic Clouds (SMC and LMC) provokes questions of their origins, and what they can reveal about galaxy evolution theory. Here, we predict the satellite stellar mass function of Magellanic Cloud-mass host galaxies using abundance matching and reionization models applied to the Caterpillar simulations. Specifically focusing on the volume within 50 kpc of the LMC, we predict a mean of 4-8 satellites with stellar mass $M_* > 10^4 \, \mathrm{M_\odot}$, and 3-4 satellites with $80 < M_* \leq 3000 \, \mathrm{M_\odot}$. Surprisingly, all $12$ currently known satellite candidates have stellar masses of $80 < M_* \leq 3000 \, \mathrm{M_\odot}$. Reconciling the dearth of large satellites and profusion of small satellites is challenging and may require a combination of a major modification of the $M_* - M_{\rm{halo}}$ relationship (steep, but with an abrupt flattening at $10^3 \, \mathrm{M_\odot}$), late reionization for the Local Group ($z_{\rm{reion}} \lesssim 9$ preferred), and/or strong tidal stripping. We can more robustly predict that $\sim 53\%$ of satellites within this volume were accreted together with the LMC and SMC, and $\sim 47\%$ were only ever Milky Way satellites. Observing satellites of isolated LMC-sized field galaxies is essential to placing the LMC in context, and to better constrain the $M_* - M_{\rm{halo}}$ relationship. Modeling known LMC-sized galaxies within $8$ Mpc, we predict 1-6 (2-12) satellites with $M_* > 10^5 \, \mathrm{M_\odot}$ ($M_* > 10^4 \, \mathrm{M_\odot}$) within the virial volume of each, and 1-3 (1-7) within a single $1.5^{\circ}$ diameter field of view, making their discovery likely. ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Searches for top-antitop quark resonances in semileptonic final states with the CMS detector ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
ANTARES : Un observatoire du fond de la mer aux confins de l’Univers ENDTITLES Neutrino astronomy is a new and unique method to explore the Universe. It is full of promises, such as improving our knowledge on cosmic accelerators or distinguishing unambiguously between hadronic and electronic acceleration mechanisms of very high energy cosmic rays. In this document the issues of neutrino astronomy are introduced and an overview of current and former neutrino telescopes is given, with a description of the performance results expected from the ANTARES underwater detector. My research path is marked by contributions to the detector calibration and by studies of the trigger system with the development of a new data selection algorithm. The potential for discovery of the ANTARES telescope is then illustrated with two analyses, one dedicated to the research of high-energy neutrinos from gamma ray bursters and the other dedicated to the search for magnetic monopoles. Within this dissertation, I also discuss the opportunity offered by a submarine detector to understand the deep-sea environment. Indeed, ANTARES is a multidisciplinary, permanent marine observatory bringing its brick to the edifice of the global understanding of physical phenomena and biological oceanography in the context of global changes. I illustrate these remarks with studies on marine bioluminescence observed by ANTARES and its connection to the dense water formation originating from the Gulf of Lion. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Radiation Effects on Silica-Based Optical Fibers: Recent Advances and Future Challenges ENDTITLE Radiation Effects on Silica-Based Optical Fibers: Recent Advances and Future Challenges ENDTITLES In this review paper, we present radiation effects on silica-based optical fibers. We first describe the mechanisms inducing microscopic and macroscopic changes under irradiation: radiation-induced attenuation, radiation-induced emission and compaction. We then discuss the influence of various parameters related to the optical fiber, to the harsh environments and to the fiber-based applications on the amplitudes and kinetics of these changes. Then, we focus on advances obtained over the last years. We summarize the main results regarding the fiber vulnerability and hardening to radiative constraints associated with several facilities such as Megajoule class lasers, ITER, LHC, nuclear power plants or with space applications. Based on the experience gained during these projects, we suggest some of the challenges that will have to be overcome in the near future to allow a deeper integration of fibers and fiber-based sensors in radiative environments. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Raman Distributed Temperature Sensing at CERN ENDTITLE Raman Distributed Temperature Sensing at CERN ENDTITLES A field trial has been performed at the CERN high-energy accelerator-mixed (CHARM) field facility, newly developed for testing devices within accelerator representative radiation environments, to validate the use of Raman-based optical fiber sensors for distributed temperature measurements in highly radiative environments. Experimental results demonstrate that Raman distributed temperature sensors, operating in loop configuration on radiation-tolerant optical fibers, are able to compensate for wavelength-dependent losses and are, therefore, robust to harsh environments, in which a mixed-field radiation, including protons, neutrons, photons, and other particles, is potentially altering the fiber material properties. The temperature profile measured on commercial radiation-tolerant optical fibers shows that a temperature resolution <;1 °C, 0.5-m spatial resolution, is highly reliable and sets the first step toward a distributed measurement system able to monitor the temperature at the CERN's large hadron collider for safety purposes. Such a system will also be helpful in correcting the radiation-induced attenuation temperature dependence in distributed radiation sensing systems based on radiation-sensitive optical fibers. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Optical absorption in commercial single mode optical fibres in a high energy physics radiation field ENDTITLE Optical absorption in commercial single mode optical fibres in a high energy physics radiation field ENDTITLES This paper reports on the radiation induced attenuation of light at 1310 nm and 1550 nm in 12 commercially available single mode (SM) optical fibres. The fibres samples are exposed to gamma rays from a 60Co source and to a high energy physics radiation field. The attenuation is studied as a function of total dose, dose rate, light power and temperature. Radiation resistant fibres from one manufacturer show an extraordinary low attenuation for light at 1310 nm that does not exceed 5 dB/km even after a total dose of 1 MGy. Some 3000 km of this type of fibre have been produced by the manufacturer and quality assurance measurements of the production batches are presently ongoing. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Large-Scale Procurement of Radiation Resistant Single-Mode Optical Fibers for CERN ENDTITLE Large-Scale Procurement of Radiation Resistant Single-Mode Optical Fibers for CERN ENDTITLES 2400 km of special radiation resistant optical fibres were procured by CERN (European Organization for Nuclear Research), for the installation of more than 55 km of optical fibre cables in the accelerator complex underground during the Long Shutdown 1 (LS1). In the frame of this large-scale industrial production, a thorough quality assurance plan (QAP) was put in place and followed at each step of the process. In-depth qualification of optical fibres preceded the 17-month procurement process. All supplied batches were tested for their resistance to radiation, leading to more than 65 quality control irradiation tests. During the cable assembly process and the installations works, a full traceability down to the optical fibre level was ensured. The actions put in place in the frame of the QAP led to successful installation works and to full respect of the LS1 planning. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Fibre optic sensor solutions for particle accelerators ENDTITLE Fibre optic sensor solutions for particle accelerators ENDTITLES Three different fibre optic radiation sensor systems are described. Two are based on the radiation-induced attenuation increase of radiation sensitive doped fibres, whereas with the third system the Cerenkov light generated by relativistic electrons in radiation hard undoped fibres is detected. All three systems are successfully used for beam optimization and dose measurement at three German electron accelerators. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Investigations of single event effects with heavy ions of energies up to 1.5 GeV/n ENDTITLE Investigations of single event effects with heavy ions of energies up to 1.5 GeV/n ENDTITLES The ESA SEU-Monitor, a DDR2 SDRAM and a power MOSFET have been irradiated at GSI with ions of energies from 80 to 1500 MeV/n. The results are compared to low energy (<; 50 MeV/n) data. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
An estimate of the bulk viscosity of the hadronic medium ENDTITLE An estimate of the bulk viscosity of the hadronic medium ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Radiation Experiments on a 28 nm Single-Chip Many-Core Processor and SEU Error-Rate Prediction ENDTITLE Radiation Experiments on a 28 nm Single-Chip Many-Core Processor and SEU Error-Rate Prediction ENDTITLES This work evaluates the SEE static and dynamic sensitivity of a single-chip many-core processor having implemented 16 compute clusters, each one with 16 processing cores. The SEU error-rate of an application implemented in the device is predicted by combining experimental results with those issued from fault injection campaigns applying the CEU (Code Emulating Upsets) approach. In addition, a comparison of the dynamic tests when processing-cores cache memories are enabled and disabled is presented. The experiments were validated through radiation ground testing performed with 14 MeV neutrons on the MPPA-256 many-core processor manufactured in TSMC CMOS 28HP technology. An analysis of the erroneous results in processor GPRs was carried-out in order to explain their possible causes. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Transient coupled calculations of the Molten Salt Fast Reactor using the Transient Fission Matrix approach ENDTITLE Transient coupled calculations of the Molten Salt Fast Reactor using the Transient Fission Matrix approach ENDTITLES In this paper we present transient studies of the Molten Salt Fast Reactor (MSFR). This generation IV reactor is characterized by a liquid fuel circulating in the core cavity, requiring specific simulation tools. An innovative neutronic approach called “Transient Fission Matrix” is used to perform spatial kinetic calculations with a reduced computational cost through a pre-calculation of the Monte Carlo spatial and temporal response of the system. Coupled to this neutronic approach, the Computational Fluid Dynamics code OpenFOAM is used to model the complex flow pattern in the core. An accurate interpolation model developed to take into account the thermal hydraulics feedback on the neutronics including reactivity and neutron flux variation is presented. Finally different transient studies of the reactor in normal and accidental operating conditions are detailed such as reactivity insertion and load following capacities. The results of these studies illustrate the excellent behavior of the MSFR during such transients. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Prospects of high energy density physics research using the CERN super proton synchrotron (SPS) ENDTITLES The Super Proton Synchrotron (SPS) will serve as an injector to the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) at CERN as well as it is used to accelerate and extract proton beams for fixed target experiments. In either case, safety of operation is a very important issue that needs to be carefully addressed. This paper presents detailed numerical simulations of the thermodynamic and hydrodynamic response of solid targets made of copper and tungsten that experience impact of a full SPS beam comprized of 288 bunches of 450 GeV/c protons. These simulations have shown that the material will be seriously damaged if such an accident happens. An interesting outcome of this work is that the SPS can be used to carry out dedicated experiments to study High Energy Density (HED) states in matter. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
I'm not a real paper ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Status of the Future Circular Collider Study ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
The Silicon Vertex Tracker of NA60 ENDTITLE The Silicon Vertex Tracker of NA60 ENDTITLES Abstract: The NA60 experiment at CERN studies the production of open charm and prompt dimuons in collisions of high energy protons or heavy ions with target nuclei. The physics program relies on the precise measurement of the charged particles' positions and momenta at the vertex. Tracking starts already a few centimeters away from the target in a radiation tolerant silicon detector placed in a 2.5 T dipole magnetic field. During several weeks of running in 2003 and 2004, this vertex tracker was exposed to high levels of inhomogeneously distributed radiation. In this paper we describe the construction, operation and performance of this novel, LHC-era detector. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
On the use of curvature invariants in numerical relativity ENDTITLE On the use of curvature invariants in numerical relativity ENDTITLES The recent breakthroughs in numerical relativity have made it possible to generate gravitational wave signals coming from binary systems. The waveforms are extracted using the Newman-Penrose formalism and in particular the Weyl scalar ψ4. In order for ψ4 to contain the physical information on the gravitational wave signal, the tetrad chosen for its calculation should converge to the Kinnersley tetrad in the limit of single black hole space-time. In this work we present a compact expression for ψ4 that automatically enforces this condition; the result is a simple function of curvature invariants that can be easily calculated in a numerical code. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
A precision measurement of the e⁺p/e⁻p elastic scattering cross section ratio at the OLYMPUS experiment ENDTITLES Measurements of the ratio of the proton elastic form factors ([mu]pGe/Gm) using Rosenbluth separation and those using polarization-based techniques show a strong discrepancy, which has persisted both in modern experimental results and in re-analyses of previous data. The most widely accepted hypothesis to explain this discrepancy is the treatment of the contributions from hard two-photon exchange (TPE) to elastic electron-proton scattering in the radiative corrections applied to the Rosenbluth separation measurements. Calculations of the hard TPE contribution are highly model dependent, but the effect may be measured experimentally with a precise determination of the ratio of the positron-proton and electron-proton elastic scattering cross sections. The OLYMPUS experiment collected approximately 4 fb-1 of e+p and e-p scattering data at the DORIS storage ring at DESY in 2012, with the goal of measuring the elastic [sigma]e+p/[sigma]e-p ratio over the kinematic range (0.4 < c < 0.9), (0.6 < Q2 < 2.2) GeV2 /c 2 at a fixed lepton beam energy of 2.01 GeV. The detector for the OLYMPUS experiment consisted of refurbished elements of the Bates Large Acceptance Spectrometer Toroid (BLAST) surrounding an internal gaseous hydrogen target, with the addition of multiple systems for the monitoring of the luminosity collected by the experiment. A detailed simulation of the experiment was developed to account for both radiative corrections and various systematic effects. This work presents preliminary results from the OLYMPUS data, demonstrating that the elastic [sigma]e+p/[sigma]e-p ratio rises to several percent at [epsilon] ~~ 0.4 and indicating a significant contribution from TPE to e± p scattering. Additionally, the value of [sigma]e+p/[sigma]e-p has been measured to unprecedented precision at [epsilon] = 0.98, which provides a valuable normalization point for other experimental data. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Epistemic probability and naturalness in global fits of supersymmetric models ENDTITLES With increasingly large amounts of computational resources becoming cheaply available, Bayesian statistical methods are growing in popularity in many fields of science. In theoretical high energy physics they have found applications in “global fits” (that is, parameter extraction and model comparison) of new physics models, particularly supersymmetric models. Unfortunately, in the most interesting cases, prior probabilities can play a very strong role. In such cases an analyst has two general options available: either attempt to isolate the analysis from the impacts of prior considerations as far as possible, or embark on a very careful prior elucidation process. The first path leads back to orthodox ‘frequentist’ analyses if followed to conclusion, though one can remove some of the impact of prior choice without completely abandoning the Bayesian framework and the advantages it offers. The second path requires careful consideration of the theoretical motivation behind the models under consideration. In this thesis I will explore both options. To begin, I review the theoretical foundations of supersymmetry, before discussing the deep connections that exist between the naturalness principle and epistemic (Bayesian) probability, particularly in the form of ‘naturalness priors’. These naturalness priors and related fine-tuning measures are derived for the MSSM and the NMSSM. Following this a large numerical study of the CMSSM is performed, with a focus on the use of partial Bayes factors to partially isolate the impact of searches at the Large Hadron Collider from prior considerations. Next I include the results of a study of naturalness priors in the constrained NMSSM. I conclude with a discussion on the future prospects for employing subjectivist techniques in phenomenological studies. Accompanying the thesis are several large appendices. These provide background material regarding the philosophy of probability, particularly subjectivist/epistemic probability, along with reviews of the frequentist and Bayesian statistical techniques used in the thesis body. Along with these reviews, I explore the implications of taking seriously an ‘operational’ subjectivist position when performing Bayesian calculations. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Precise predictions for Dirac neutrino mixing ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Towards an orbifold generalization of Zvonkine's $r$-ELSV formula ENDTITLE Towards an orbifold generalization of Zvonkine's $r$-ELSV formula ENDTITLES We perform a key step towards the proof of Zvonkine's conjectural $r$-ELSV formula that relates Hurwitz numbers with completed $(r+1)$-cycles to the geometry of the moduli spaces of the $r$-spin structures on curves: we prove the quasi-polynomiality property prescribed by Zvonkine's conjecture. Moreover, we propose an orbifold generalization of Zvonkine's conjecture and prove the quasi-polynomiality property in this case as well. In addition to that, we study the $(0,1)$- and $(0,2)$-functions in this generalized case and we show that these unstable cases are correctly reproduced by the spectral curve initial data. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
The tautological ring of $\mathcal{M}_{g,n}$ via Pandharipande-Pixton-Zvonkine $r$-spin relations ENDTITLE The tautological ring of $\mathcal{M}_{g,n}$ via Pandharipande-Pixton-Zvonkine $r$-spin relations ENDTITLES We use relations in the tautological ring of the moduli spaces $\overline{\mathcal{M}}_{g,n}$ derived by Pandharipande, Pixton, and Zvonkine from the Givental formula for the $r$-spin Witten class in order to obtain some restrictions on the dimensions of the tautological rings of the open moduli spaces $\mathcal{M}_{g,n}$. In particular, we give a new proof for the result of Looijenga (for $n=1$) and Buryak et al. (for $n\geq 2$) that $\dim R^{g-1}(\mathcal{M}_{g,n}) \leq n$. We also give a new proof of the result of Looijenga (for $n=1$) and Ionel (for arbitrary $n\geq 1$) that $R^{i}(\mathcal{M}_{g,n}) =0$ for $i\geq g$ and give some estimates for the dimension of $R^{i}(\mathcal{M}_{g,n})$ for $i\leq g-2$. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
M-theory Perspectives on Codimension-2 Defects ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Experimental Analysis of Dipole Modes in Elliptical Cavity ENDTITLES The experimental measurements of transverse shunt impedance for higher order modes TM110 and TE111 for S-band elliptical cavity were carried out. The experiments using dielectric and metallic spheres as perturbing objects and with ring probe were done. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Implementation of Ultrasonic Sensing for High Resolution Measurement of Binary Gas Mixture Fractions ENDTITLE Implementation of Ultrasonic Sensing for High Resolution Measurement of Binary Gas Mixture Fractions ENDTITLES We describe an ultrasonic instrument for continuous real-time analysis of the fractional mixture of a binary gas system. The instrument is particularly well suited to measurement of leaks of a high molecular weight gas into a system that is nominally composed of a single gas. Sensitivity < 5 × 10−5 is demonstrated to leaks of octaflouropropane (C3F8) coolant into nitrogen during a long duration (18 month) continuous study. The sensitivity of the described measurement system is shown to depend on the difference in molecular masses of the two gases in the mixture. The impact of temperature and pressure variances on the accuracy of the measurement is analysed. Practical considerations for the implementation and deployment of long term, in situ ultrasonic leak detection systems are also described. Although development of the described systems was motivated by the requirements of an evaporative fluorocarbon cooling system, the instrument is applicable to the detection of leaks of many other gases and to processes requiring continuous knowledge of particular binary gas mixture fractions. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
The ATLAS RPC Test Stand at INFN Roma Tor Vergata ENDTITLE The ATLAS RPC Test Stand at INFN Roma Tor Vergata ENDTITLES The ATLAS experiment at the LHC uses plastic laminates RPCs as first level trigger detectors in the barrel up to pseudorapidity |eta| < 1. A set of quality controls are performed on the RPC chambers before they are sent to CERN for integration and installation on the experiment. Three test stands were installed for this purpose in INFN Divisions of Lecce, Napoli and Roma Tor Vergata. The results of the BOL-type chambers tested in Rome are presented. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
ATLAS Detector Simulation: Status and OutLook ENDTITLE ATLAS Detector Simulation: Status and OutLook ENDTITLES The simulation program for the ATLAS experiment at CERN is currently in a full operational mode and integrated into the ATLAS's common analysis framework, ATHENA. The OO approach, based on GEANT4, and in use during the DC2 data challenge has been interfaced within ATHENA and to GEANT4 using the LCG dictionaries and Python scripting. The robustness of the application was proved during the DC2 data challenge. The Python interface has added the flexibility, modularity and interactivity that the simulation tool needs to tackle, in a common way, different full ATLAS simulations setups, test beams and cosmic ray studies. Generation, simulation and digitization steps were exercised for performance and robustness tests. The comparison with real data has been possible in the context of the ATLAS combined test beam (2004) and ongoing cosmic ray studies ENDABSTRACTS CORE
The Geant4-Based Simulation Software of the ATLAS Detector ENDTITLE The Geant4-Based Simulation Software of the ATLAS Detector ENDTITLES Abstract: The ATLAS detector is a general purpose experiment which will study frontier physics by observing the collisions of two proton beams. It is presently under construction at CERN's Large Hadron Collider. Its instrumentation will cover a volume of about 22800 m around the interaction point. The simulation software is foreseen to be in use for more than 15 years and it must be, during this long period of time, easily maintainable and extensible. The intrinsic complexity of the geometry calls for a high degree of configurability so to allow to perform the simulation of only one part of the detector, or with different configurations of the magnetic field. Moreover, being the simulation of full physical events a time consuming process, simulation jobs will be run using extensively Grid technologies. We will give a complete review of the status of the Geant4-based ATLAS simulation software, nowadays fully functional, with particular stress on configurability issues and performance measurements. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Transverse beam stability and determination of gain and delay for mixed-signal transverse feedback dampers in particle accelerators ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Commissioning of the CMS Magnet ENDTITLE Commissioning of the CMS Magnet ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Spatial and temporal beam profiles for the LHC using synchrotron light ENDTITLE Spatial and temporal beam profiles for the LHC using synchrotron light ENDTITLES Synchrotron radiation is emitted whenever a beam of charged particles passes though a magnetic field. The power emitted is strongly dependent on the relativistic Lorentz factor of the particles, which itself is proportional to the beam energy and inversely proportional to the particle rest mass. Thus, synchrotron radiation is usually associated with electron accelerators, which are commonly used as light sources. However the largest proton machines reach sufficiently high energies to make synchrotron light useful for diagnostic purposes. The Large Hadron Collider at CERN will accelerate protons up to an energy of 7TeV. An optical arrangement has been made which focuses synchrotron light from two LHC magnets to image the cross-section of the beam. It is also planned to use this setup to produce a longitudinal profile of the beam by use of fast Single Photon Counting. This is complicated by the bunched nature of the beam which needs to be measured with a very large dynamic range. In this contribution we present early experimental data of the transverse LHC beam profile together with a scheme for measuring the longitudinal profile with a time resolution of 50 ps. It includes the use of a gating regime to increase the dynamic range of the photon counter and a three-stage correction algorithm to compensate for the detector's deadtime, afterpulsing and pile-up effects. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
A Z-Pinch Plasma Lens for Focusing High-Energy Particles in an Accelerator ENDTITLE A Z-Pinch Plasma Lens for Focusing High-Energy Particles in an Accelerator ENDTITLES The high azimuthal magnetic field of a current-carrying plasma column (z-pinch) can be used to collect and focus high-energy charged particles in accelerators. The beam optics and the apparent advantages of such a linear lens compared with conventional focusing devices, such as magnets and magnetic horns, are described. When a plasma lens shall be operated in routine accelerator runs, the physics of the plasma dynamics must be largely understood and the technology has to be mastered. The results of plasma dynamics measurements and of long-term behavior tests with a plasma lens for antiproton collection are reported. The problems of the plasma dynamics control and of the plasma-wall interaction are discussed in view of the envisaged performance for antiproton collection. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Bidifferential calculus, matrix SIT and sine-Gordon equations ENDTITLE Bidifferential calculus, matrix SIT and sine-Gordon equations ENDTITLES We express a matrix version of the self-induced transparency (SIT) equations in the bidifferential calculus framework. An infinite family of exact solutions is then obtained by application of a general result that generates exact solutions from solutions of a linear system of arbitrary matrix size. A side result is a solution formula for the sine-Gordon equation. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Hyperfine structure of S-states of muonic tritium ENDTITLE Hyperfine structure of S-states of muonic tritium ENDTITLES On the basis of quasipotential method in quantum electrodynamics we carry out a precise calculation of hyperfine splitting of S-states in muonic tritium. The one-loop and two-loop vacuum polarization corrections, relativistic effects, nuclear structure corrections in first and second orders of perturbation theory are taken into account. The contributions to hyperfine structure are obtained in integral form and calculated analytically and numerically. Obtained results for hyperfine splitting can be used for a comparison with future experimental data of CREMA collaboration. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Hadronic deuteron polarizability contribution the hyperfine structure in muonic deuterium ENDTITLE Hadronic deuteron polarizability contribution the hyperfine structure in muonic deuterium ENDTITLES The calculation of the contribution to the polarizability of the nucleus to hyperfine structure of muonic hydrogen is carried out within the unitary isobar model and on the basis of experimental data on the structure functions of deep inelastic lepton-proton and lepton-deuteron scattering. The calculation of virtual absorption cross sections of transversely and longitudinally polarized photons by nucleons in the resonance region is performed in the framework of the program MAID. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
HEP computing in a context-aware cloud environment ENDTITLE HEP computing in a context-aware cloud environment ENDTITLES This paper describes the use of a distributed cloud computing system for high energy physics (HEP) applications. The system is composed of IaaS clouds integrated into a unified infrastructure that has been in production for over two years. It continues to expand in scale and sites, encompassing more than twenty clouds on three continents. We are prototyping a new context-aware architecture that enables the virtual machines to make connections to both software and data repositories based on geolocation information. The new design will significantly enhance the ability of the system to scale to higher workloads and run data-intensive applications. We review the operation of the production system and describe our work towards a context-aware cloud system. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Quot schemes and Ricci semipositivity ENDTITLE Quot schemes and Ricci semipositivity ENDTITLES Let $X$ be a compact connected Riemann surface of genus at least two, and let ${\mathcal Q}_X(r,d)$ be the quot scheme that parametrizes all the torsion coherent quotients of ${\mathcal O}^{\oplus r}_X$ of degree $d$. This ${\mathcal Q}_X(r,d)$ is also a moduli space of vortices on $X$. Its geometric properties have been extensively studied. Here we prove that the anticanonical line bundle of ${\mathcal Q}_X(r,d)$ is not nef. Equivalently, ${\mathcal Q}_X(r,d)$ does not admit any K\"ahler metric whose Ricci curvature is semipositive. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Potential of compact Compton sources in the medical field ENDTITLE Potential of compact Compton sources in the medical field ENDTITLES The exceptional improvement of high power lasers and optical cavity finesses in the last fifteen years allows today the development of X-ray sources based on inverse Compton scattering. These compact sources will provide high intensity beams, with a tunable energy in the range 20–100 keV, that can be used in several application including material sciences, structural biology, cultural heritage research and preservation and medical or biomedical preclinical and clinical research. The access to these devices will be easier. Methods currently used only in synchrotron facilities will be available in dedicated work environment such as hospitals, laboratories or museums. Several machines are in design or construction phase, and aim at producing 1012–1014 ph/s. The ThomX machine is the most advanced project and has the potential to be used as the radiation source for biomedical searches, clinical imaging techniques or radiotherapy programs. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Chocs caractéristiques et ondes simples exceptionnelles pour les systèmes conservatifs à intégrale d'énergie: forme explicite de la solution ENDTITLES (Translated from the French abstract): A Legendre transformation of the field variables allows to write down the explicit form of the solution which highlights the part that results from the nonlinearity of the equations. Original French abstract: Une transformation de Legendre des variables du champ permet d'écrire la forme explicite de la solution qui met en évidence la partie qui résulte de la non-linéarité des équations. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
(1+1) Newton-Hooke Group for the Simple and Damped Harmonic Oscillator ENDTITLE (1+1) Newton-Hooke Group for the Simple and Damped Harmonic Oscillator ENDTITLES It is demonstrated that, in the framework of the orbit method, a simple and damped harmonic oscillators are indistinguishable at the level of an abstract Lie algebra. In depth analysis of the coadjoint orbits of the (1+1) dimensional Newton-Hooke group are presented. Further, it is argued that the physical interpretation is carried by a specific realisation of the Lie algebra of smooth functions on a phase space rather than by an abstract Lie algebra. ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Aspects of Particle Physics Beyond the Standard Model ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Novel Application of Density Estimation Techniques in Muon Ionization Cooling Experiment ENDTITLES Cooled muon beams are essential to the production of high flux, background-free neutrino beams at the Neutrino Factory (NF) and high-luminosity collisions at the Muon Collider (MC). When pions decay into muons, they form beams with large phase-space volumes. To optimize muon yield and fit the beam into cost-effective accelerators, the beam phase-space volume needs to be reduced. Ionization cooling is the only technique that can reduce the beam phase-space volume within the short muon lifetime, and the international Muon Ionization Cooling Experiment (MICE) will be the first experiment to demonstrate this. A figure of merit for beam cool- ing is the transverse root-mean-square (RMS) emittance reduction. However, RMS emittance can be sensitive to non-linear effects in beam optics. We study an alterna- tive measure of cooling where a measurement of phase-space density and volume is made through the novel application of the Density Estimation (DE) techniques to MICE, in specific the Kernel Density Estimation (KDE) method. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Sur une fonction croissante comme l'entropie et génératrice des chocs dans les systèmes hyperboliques ENDTITLES (Translated from the French abstract): Using the Rankine-Hugoniot equations only and a convexity hypothesis, we demonstrate the increase of a certain function of the shock. This same function determines the shock of the field expressed in terms of new variables. Original French abstract: On montre, en utilisant les seules équations de Rankine-Hugoniot et une hypothése de convexité, la croissance d'une certaine fonction du choc. Cette même fonction détermine le choc du champ défini par de nouvelles variables. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Radiography with cosmic-ray and compact accelerator muons; Exploring inner-structure of large-scale objects and landforms ENDTITLE Radiography with cosmic-ray and compact accelerator muons; Exploring inner-structure of large-scale objects and landforms ENDTITLES Cosmic-ray muons (CRM) arriving from the sky on the surface of the earth are now known to be used as radiography purposes to explore the inner-structure of large-scale objects and landforms, ranging in thickness from meter to kilometers scale, such as volcanic mountains, blast furnaces, nuclear reactors etc. At the same time, by using muons produced by compact accelerators (CAM), advanced radiography can be realized for objects with a thickness in the sub-millimeter to meter range, with additional exploration capability such as element identification and bio-chemical analysis. In the present report, principles, methods and specific research examples of CRM transmission radiography are summarized after which, principles, methods and perspective views of the future CAM radiography are described. ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Dynamical centers for the elliptic quantum algebra ${\mathcal{B}}_{q,\lambda}(\hat{gl}_2)_c$ ENDTITLE Dynamical centers for the elliptic quantum algebra ${\mathcal{B}}_{q,\lambda}(\hat{gl}_2)_c$ ENDTITLES We identify inside the face-type elliptic quantum algebra ${\mathcal{B}}_{q,\lambda}(\hat{gl}_{2})_c$ generating functionals that satisfy dynamical exchange relations with the Lax matrices defining the algebra, when the central charge takes two possible values $c=\pm 2$. These structures are characterized as "dynamical centers", i.e. the centrality property is deformed by dynamical shifts. For these values, the functionals define (genuine) abelian subalgebras of ${\mathcal{B}}_{q,\lambda}(\hat{gl}_{2})_c$. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Inhomogeneous Heisenberg Spin Chain as a Non-Holonomically Deformed NLS System ENDTITLE Inhomogeneous Heisenberg Spin Chain as a Non-Holonomically Deformed NLS System ENDTITLES The Heisenberg Spin Chain system, in the continuum limit, can be represented by the non-linear Schr\"odinger equation through the Hashimoto map. Inhomogeneity induced through localizing the nearest neighbor interaction strength can also be mapped similarly to an integro -differential generalization of the non-linear Schrodinger system [J. Phys. C: Solid State Phys. 15, L1305 (1982)] which is integrable. We show that the latter system is a particular non-holonomic deformation of the usual non-linear Schrodinger equation, aided by generalized parameterizations. General non-holonomic deformations correspond only to temporal inhomogeneity, with the additional spatial inhomogeneity corresponding to particular spectral orders, identical for both continuum Heisenberg spin chain and non-linear schrodinger system. Being semi-Classical in nature, these continuum limits of spin system display amplitude-phase entanglement. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Measurement and simulation of neutron detection efficiency in lead-scintillating fiber calorimeters ENDTITLE Measurement and simulation of neutron detection efficiency in lead-scintillating fiber calorimeters ENDTITLES The overall detection efficiency to neutrons of a small prototype of the KLOE lead-scintillating fiber calorimeter has been measured at the neutron beam facility of The Svedberg Laboratory, TSL, Uppsala, in the kinetic energy range [5–175] MeV. The measurement of the neutron detection efficiency of a NE110 scintillator provided a reference calibration. At the lowest trigger threshold, the overall calorimeter efficiency ranges from 30% to 50%. This value largely exceeds the estimated 8–15% expected if the response were proportional only to the scintillator equivalent thickness. A detailed simulation of the calorimeter and of the TSL beam line has been performed with the FLUKA Monte Carlo code. First data-MC comparisons are encouraging and allow to disentangle a neutron halo component in the beam. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Polyethylene Wedge Absorber in MICE ENDTITLES Observing simultaneous six-dimensional, transverse, and longitudinal emittance reduction is possible in MICE Step IV using a polyethylene wedge even if the two coils, M1D and M2D are inoperable. The dispersion in the beam needs to be generated by particle selection. The best configuration found so far is with the 45-degree wedge opening angle. This wedge generates more transverse cooling than the 60-degree one. At the same time, the longitudinal cooling is not jeopardized. The wedge itself is smaller and lighter and covers more of the beam aperture. On the other hand, the 30-degree wedge requires larger dispersion at the wedge, which complicates particle selection. The fabrication of the absorber is straightforward with short lead time and material readily available. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
D-Brane Effective Field Theory and Topics in Quantum Gravity ENDTITLES This dissertation covers several disparate subjects in string theory and quantum gravity. The first part focuses on the effective field theory of D-branes in string theory. The low energy field theory of a particular configuration of intersecting D3-branes is worked out. Toy models derived from this field theory can then be used to explicitly exhibit S-duality. Finally, effective brane calculations have consequences in cosmological string theory: they suggest the perturbative stability of certain well-known constructions of de Sitter string vacua by Kachru, Kallosh, Linde, and Trivedi. The second part focuses on better understanding quantum gravity. A bulk higher spin gravity theory is constructed from the renormalization group flow of a free vector model. A proposal is given to express bulk locality of a gravity theory in terms of the natural gauge structure of the boundary dual theory. Finally, some restrictions are developed for a class of gravitational states in 2+1 AdS that are of interest to the construction of natural quantum gravity operators. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Use of Wedge Absorbers in MICE ENDTITLES Wedge absorbers are needed to obtain longitudinal cooling in ionization cooling. They also can be used to obtain emittance exchanges between longitudinal and transverse phase space. There can be large exchanges in emittance, even with single wedges. In the present note we explore the use of wedge absorbers in the MICE experiment to obtain transverse–longitudinal emittance exchanges within present and future operational conditions. The same wedge can be used to explore “direct” and “reverse” emittance exchange dynamics, where direct indicates a configuration that reduces momentum spread and reverse is a configuration that increases momentum spread. Analytical estimated and ICOOL and G4BeamLine simulations of the exchanges at MICE parameters are presented. Large exchanges can be obtained in both reverse and direct configurations. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
On the Derivation and Interpretation of the Poincar\'e-Maxwell Group ENDTITLE On the Derivation and Interpretation of the Poincar\'e-Maxwell Group ENDTITLES The Lie algebra of the Poincar\'e-Maxwell group is derived in a manner that provides the interpretation of the equations of motion. It is clarified that the dynamics obtained from the orbit method is exactly equivalent to the classical description of the charged particle moving in the constant electromagnetic field. The multiplicity of the coadjoint orbits of the group under consideration is discussed. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Morphology and microstructure of Mg-Ti-H films deposited by microwave plasma-assisted co-sputtering ENDTITLE Morphology and microstructure of Mg-Ti-H films deposited by microwave plasma-assisted co-sputtering ENDTITLES Mg-Ti-H films with a Ti content in the range 0  at.% Ti < 20 were obtained in a single-step process using the microwave reactive plasma-assisted co-sputtering technique. The morphology, crystal structure, chemical composition and spatial distribution of the elements were investigated by X-ray diffraction, scanning and transmission electron microscopy coupled with energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy and precession electron diffraction. Our results show that the Ti-poor films (0  at.% Ti  0.45) exhibit mainly the tetragonal beMgH2 phase and have a dense microstructure with discontinuous columnar grains. For the films with a medium Ti content (2.7  at.% Ti  6.6), the beMgH2, metastable orthorhombic geMgH2 and Mg-Ti phases were found in different proportions, with a typical columnar growth. The abrupt microstructural changes of the films with a Ti content >10 at.% correlate with the change in crystallinity. These films exhibit a mainly amorphous/nanocrystalline structure with a granular morphology. We showed that the Ti content plays a significant role in the formation of structural and microstructural features of the Mg-Ti-H films, which might be a useful parameter in tuning the functional properties of magnesium hydride. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Extended rotation curves of high-luminosity spiral galaxies. IV. Systematic dynamical properties, Sa through Sc ENDTITLE Extended rotation curves of high-luminosity spiral galaxies. IV - Systematic dynamical properties, SA through SC ENDTITLES For a sample of 10 high-luminosity spiral galaxies, Sa through Sc, we have obtained accurate rotation curves which extend to about 80% of the de Vaucouleurs radii. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Static spherically symmetric solutions in higher derivative gravity ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Existence theorems for a general 2 × 2 non-Abelian Chern–Simons–Higgs system over a torus ENDTITLE Existence theorems for a general 2 × 2 non-Abelian Chern–Simons–Higgs system over a torus ENDTITLES n this paper we study a general 2×2 non-Abelian Chern–Simons–Higgs system of the form View the MathML source Turn MathJax on over a flat 2-torus T2, where ε>0, δp is the Dirac measure at p , Ni∈N (i=1,2), K is a non-degenerate 2×2 matrix of the form View the MathML source, which may cover the physically interesting case when K is a Cartan matrix (of a rank 2 semisimple Lie algebra). Concerning the existence results of this type system over T2, usually in the literature there is a requirement that a,b>0. However, it is an open problem so far for the solvability about such system with a,b<0, which naturally appears in several Chern–Simons–Higgs models with some specific gauge groups. We partially solve this problem by showing that there exists a constant ε0>0 such that this system admits a solution over the torus if 0<ε<ε0 provided |a|,|b| are suitably small. Furthermore, if ab≥0 in addition, with suitable condition on a,b,N1,N2, this system admits a mountain-pass solution. Our argument is based on a perturbation approach and the mountain-pass lemma. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Clustering of Clusters as a Cosmological Probe ENDTITLES Galaxy clusters play a leading role in both present and planned cosmological investigations. They represent the biggest collapsed structure of the Universe, sitting on top of the highest peaks of the dark matter density field. These objects are considered from long time as cosmological probes; the possibility to link their observed properties to the fundamental quantities of their host haloes, modelled as a function of cosmological parameters, is in fact very concrete. The advantage in using these objects for this kind of studies comes from a) the presence of multiple independent methods covering the whole spectrum to determine the total halo mass: this helps in understanding the systematics that affect different procedures and then provide a robust mass estimate; b) the less sophisticated modelling required to link the observations with cosmologically relevant quantities, as for these masses the baryon physics has only a marginal influence; the same cannot be exploited with e.g. galaxies, as the link between the total mass and observable quantities is much more influenced by baryon physics. These positive aspects apply also to the case of clustering of galaxy clusters. Moreover, clusters have a large clustering signal, due to the high bias and a very negligible contribution from non-linear redshift-space distortions caused by peculiar motions of objects in virialized haloes. All of these advantages counterbalance the larger measurement uncertainties due to the paucity of cluster sample with respect to galaxy clustering analyses. Moreover, the possibility to combine all the probes the galaxy clusters can provide gives us an unique instrument to address the fundamental puzzles in the present-day cosmology. In this Thesis we will exploit the clustering of an optically selected sample of galaxy clusters, focusing in particular on the two-point correlation function. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Cosmological Constraints on Cosmic Inflation and Scalar-Tensor Dark Energy Models from CMB Anisotropies and Galaxy Clustering ENDTITLES This thesis investigates the most recent cosmological bservations in order to constrain cosmic inflation and what is probably the simplest model of modified gravity. We provide a detailed calculation for the scalar spectral index and for the tensor-to-scalar ratio, in slow-roll approximation, for a selection of single field inflationary models and we compare them with Planck 2015 data, taking into account reheating uncertainties. We studied selected theoretically motivated parametrizations of the primordial power spectrum with departure from the near scale invariance, providing a better fit to the CMB temperature power spectrum with respect to the simplest slow-roll inflationary models. For a selection of models, we forecast the capability of future spectroscopic, photometric, and radio surveys, in combination with CMB measurements, to constrain parametrized features in the primordial power spectrum. We studied a simple class of modified gravity models alternative to ΛCDM, based on Induced Gravity, or a Brans-Dicke like, with a monomial potential with positive values of the exponent. Cosmological constraints for this class of dark energy models are derived from CMB alone and in combination with external dataset, such as BAO and H0 local measurements. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Performance studies of CMS workflows using Big Data technologies ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Characteristics of multijet t/t events reconstructed by CMS in pp collisions at 13 TeV ENDTITLES We present here a characterization of the Monte Carlo samples used at CMS in the current LHC run (Run 2, sqrt(s)=13 TeV) and we compare them to the ones used in the previous run (Run 1, sqrt(s)=8 TeV). We then use these samples to reconstruct the top quark mass from the all-hadronic decay products and we compare the efficiencies of the standard reconstruction method when applied to the two different samples. We finally find a way to improve the efficiency for 13 TeV samples by using jets reconstructed with a different algorithm, the Cambridge-Aachen algorithm. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Studies of CMS data access patterns with machine learning techniques ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Non-Gaussianities from a sudden change in the inflaton speed of sound ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Search for ttbar resonances at sqrt(s) = 8 TeV with the CMS experiment at LHC ENDTITLES This work concerns the search for the production of heavy resonances decaying into ttbar pairs at a the center-of-mass energy √s = 8 TeV in the CMS experiment at LHC. After the Higgs boson discovery, a persisting issue in the Standard Model is the squared divergencies of the Higgs mass, that generate the “hierarchy problem”. This divergence is mitigated by the Supersimmetry or, in other models, introducing the Kaluza-Klein gluonic resonances or Z massive resonances with higher coupling with the most massive particles. For this reason, the ttbar decay is the channel with the highest cross section. The models predict a mass of these resonances between 700 GeV and some TeV, and production cross sections around some picobarns. The CMS data collected at √s = 8 TeV center-of-mass energy with integrated luminosity L= 19.5 fb^(-1) represent a large sample of data on which it is possible to look for a possible tt resonances. In this thesis, the search is performed in the all-jets channel with reference to the resolved event topology characterised by 6 or more jets in the final state. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Modelling the size distribution of cosmic voids ENDTITLES The Standard Cosmological Model is generally accepted by the scientific community, there are still an amount of unresolved issues. From the observable characteristics of the structures in the Universe,it should be possible to impose constraints on the cosmological parameters. Cosmic Voids (CV) are a major component of the LSS and have been shown to possess great potential for constraining DE and testing theories of gravity. But a gap between CV observations and theory still persists. A theoretical model for void statistical distribution as a function of size exists (SvdW) However, the SvdW model has been unsuccesful in reproducing the results obtained from cosmological simulations. This undermines the possibility of using voids as cosmological probes. The goal of our thesis work is to cover the gap between theoretical predictions and measured distributions of cosmic voids. We develop an algorithm to identify voids in simulations,consistently with theory. We inspecting the possibilities offered by a recently proposed refinement of the SvdW (the Vdn model, Jennings et al., 2013). Comparing void catalogues to theory, we validate the Vdn model, finding that it is reliable over a large range of radii, at all the redshifts considered and for all the cosmological models inspected. We have then searched for a size function model for voids identified in a distribution of biased tracers. We find that, naively applying the same procedure used for the unbiased tracers to a halo mock distribution does not provide success- full results, suggesting that the Vdn model requires to be reconsidered when dealing with biased samples. Thus, we test two alternative exten- sions of the model and find that two scaling relations exist: both the Dark Matter void radii and the underlying Dark Matter density contrast scale with the halo-defined void radii. We use these findings to develop a semi-analytical model which gives promising results. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Search for a diffuse flux of cosmic neutrinos in the shower channel with the ANTARES telescope ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Revised geometric estimates of the North Galactic Pole and the Sun's height above the Galactic mid-plane ENDTITLE Revised geometric estimates of the North Galactic Pole and the Sun's height above the Galactic mid-plane ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
The gas electron multiplier (GEM): Operating principles and applications ENDTITLE The gas electron multiplier (GEM): Operating principles and applications ENDTITLES Introduced by the author in 1997, The Gas Electron Multiplier (GEM) constitutes a powerful addition to the family of fast radiation detectors; originally developed for particle physics experiments, the device and has spawned a large number of developments and applications; a web search yields more than 400 articles on the subject. This note is an attempt to summarize the status of the design, developments and applications of the new detector. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Homogeneous porous silica for positronium production in AEgIS ENDTITLE Homogeneous porous silica for positronium production in AEgIS ENDTITLES Positronium (Ps) formation measurements in homogeneous porous silica (Xerogel of 85 mg cm−3 and swollen MCM-41 of 390 mg cm−3) were performed at different temperatures (8K–293K) by means of a variable energy positron beam equipped with a Ge detector. The results indicate that Xerogel and swollen MCM-41 samples have a high Ps production, which is independent on the temperature. An estimation of the ortho-Ps mean diffusion length was obtained by measuring samples capped with an Al film (~110 nm). An efficient formation of cooled Ps atoms is a requisite for efficient production of antihydrogen, with the aim of a direct measurement of the Earth gravitational acceleration of antimatter, a primary scientific goal of AEgIS (Antimatter Experiment: gravity, Interferometry, Spectroscopy, CERN). Porous materials with open pores at the surface are necessary to produce a high yield of Ps atoms as well as to cool Ps through collisions with the inner walls of the pores before emerging in the free space outside the target. The results indicate that Xerogel and swollen MCM-41 are good candidates for an efficient formation of cold Ps atoms within the framework of the AEgIS project. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
New solar metallicity measurements ENDTITLE New solar metallicity measurements ENDTITLES In the past years, a systematic downward revision of the metallicity of the Sun has led to the "solar modelling problem", namely the disagreement between predictions of standard solar models and inferences from helioseismology. Recent solar wind measurements of the metallicity of the Sun, however, provide once more indication for a high-metallicity Sun. Because of the effects of possible residual fractionation, the derived value of the metallicity Z = 0.0196$\pm$0.0014 actually represents a lower limit to the true metallicity of Sun. However, when compared with helioseismological measurements, solar models computed using these new abundances fail to restore agreement, owing to the implausibly high abundance of refractory (Mg, Si, S, Fe) elements, which correlates with a higher core temperature and hence an over-production of solar neutrinos. Moreover, the robustness of these measurements is challenged by possible first ionization potential fractionation processes. In this talk I will discuss these solar wind measurements, which leave the "solar modelling problem" unsolved. ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Cosmological perturbations in mimetic gravity models ENDTITLES The so-called LambdaCDM model of cosmology has been very successful at explaining all cosmological observations. Various attempts are ongoing in explaining the effect of a cosmological constant Lambda in terms of a modification of gravity w.r.t to Einstein General Relativity. Recently, an interesting scenario has been proposed, the so called mimetic gravity. In this scenario the dark matter components of the universe (dark matter and dark energy contributions) can be mimicked purely with a modification of gravity. In general this is achieved starting from a given initial theory and applying to it a non-invertible disformal transformation (the original paper by Chamsedinne and Mukhanov started from the Einstein-Hilbert action to provide a new theory where a new degree of freedom could mimick a cold dark matter componentâ ''mimetic dark matter''). The status of these scenarios is mature enough to study their cosmological perturbations with the goal of extracting some obervational predictions of particular interest for forthcoming Large Scale Structure surveys, like the one the forthcoming Euclid satellite mission will provide. The goal of this thesis is to make a detailed computation of the observational predictions for mimetic gravity models. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
New Phenomenology from Asymmetric Dark Matter ENDTITLES The properties of dark matter — its microphysical form, and its cosmological origin and history — are one of the most important mysteries in fundamental physics. So far, evidence for matter beyond the Standard Model comes entirely from gravitational effects. However, other experiments are reaching the point where the ‘simplest’ models of dark matter are coming into tension with data, and may be strongly constrained by medium-term observations. This, along with theoretical considerations, motivates the exploration of other possibilities for the history and composition of dark matter, especially those with the possibility of new, generic observational signatures. In this thesis, we explore some different classes of new dark matter models, focussing on regimes in which they may display approximately model-independent phenomenology. Firstly, we look at a class of dark matter models featuring large-number, stable composite states, and investigate how these may be synthesised in the early universe. As the example of Standard Model nuclear physics and Big Bang Nucleosynthesis demonstrates, the properties of small-number composite states in strongly-coupled theories may be complicated, and sensitive to the precise details of the theory. However, it may reasonably be expected that the properties of large enough composite states will obey simple geometrical scaling laws. In this case, if large enough states are synthesised in the early universe, the overall results of the synthesis process may become broadly independent of the detailed parameters of the model, and of initial conditions. We model ‘dark nucleosynthesis’ in such a regime, and find that the late-time number distribution takes on one of two characteristic forms, in both cases with weak dependence on small-number initial conditions and behaviour. Following on from this, we consider the scattering phenomenology that would result from dark matter being made up of such large composite states. This includes the coherent enhancement of scattering rates — for example, at direct detection experiments — compared to e.g. collider production processes. The spatially extended nature of composite dark matter states could also lead to characteristic momentum-dependent form factors in scattering processes, which may be identifiable in direct detection experiments. In addition, inelastic interactions between dark matter states may be important in astrophysical settings. Illustrating the effects of dark-sector energy injections, we present calculations for dark matter halo modifications through velocity kicks. As an example application, we discuss a different class of asymmetric dark matter models, in which late-time decays of part of the dark matter can re-populate a symmetric component, giving annihilation signals in galactic halos. The velocity kicks arising from the decay process may modify the spatial profile of such signals, to the extent to eliminating them almost completely from low-escape-velocity systems such as dwarf galaxies. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Bohmian Mechanics, Open Quantum Systems and Continuous Measurements ENDTITLE Bohmian Mechanics, Open Quantum Systems and Continuous Measurements ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Implication of Electric Noise in the ACORDE Front-End Electronics of the ALICE Experiment ENDTITLE Implication of Electric Noise in the ACORDE Front-End Electronics of the ALICE Experiment ENDTITLES In this work is presented a noise analyse of the Front- Electronics of the ACORDE detector. ACORDE is one of the detectors that will be employed on the ALICE project. Low pass filters are applied in order to reduce the noise on the output signal. The results of using filters allow us to consider it in the next upgrade of the ACORDE electronics. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
A search for the pair production of scalar top quarks in hadronic final states with the CMS detector ENDTITLES The known elementary particles and their interactions are described with incredible accuracy by the Standard Model of particle physics. Despite its success, strong ex- perimental and theoretical concerns point to the likely existence of physics beyond the standard model, including the lack of an explanation for the vast quantity of Dark Matter and Dark Energy within this framework and the incredible level of fine-tuning required for the theory to be compatible with the measured Higgs boson mass. Supersymmetry is a broader theory that addresses many of these problems. In this dissertation I describe a search for the direct pair production of the supersymmetric partner of the top quark in hadronic final states with missing transverse momentum. This search is performed on a dataset of proton-proton collisions corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 18.9 fb−1 collected at √s = 8 TeV with the Compact Muon Solenoid experiment at the Large Hadron Collider. The pair production of top quarks with a single lepton in the final state, the production of a Z boson decaying to two neutrinos, and the associated production of a top quark pair with no leptons in the final state and a Z boson decaying to neu- trinos form significant Standard Model backgrounds to this search. The background is suppressed with a number of techniques that include high efficiency lepton identification, a dedicated top quark pair reconstruction algorithm, and search regions defined with multivariate techniques. The background yields in the search regions are estimated with an extensive study of the processes in data control regions. The data are compatible with the predicted backgrounds and the results are interpreted as exclusion limits in terms of the Simplified Model Spectra framework. The sensitivity of this search to models with a top squark decaying to jets and a neutralino through a on-shell top quark extends to 775 GeV in top squark mass and to 650 GeV in models with a top squark decaying through an intermediate chargino. ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Dualities, Helicity Amplitudes, and Little Conformal Symmetry ENDTITLES Historically, the theory of monopoles and dyons has been plagued with nonlocality and broken Lorentz covariance, leading to difficulty in calculations of amplitudes involving magnetic currents. We present the Zwanziger two-gauge formalism that addresses these problems, and use spinor helicity methods to extract results in dyon-dyon and light-light scattering. Furthermore, we examine interacting Abelian theories at low energies and show that holomorphically normalized photon helicity amplitudes transform into dual amplitudes under SL(2,Z) as modular forms with weights that depend on the external photon helicities and the number of internal photon lines. Even though the amplitudes are not duality invariant, their squares are; we explicitly verify the duality transformation at one loop by comparing the amplitudes of an electron and the dyon that is its SL(2, Z) image, and extend the invariance of squared amplitudes order by order in perturbation theory. We demonstrate that S-duality is a property of all low-energy effective Abelian theories with electric and/or magnetic charges and see how the duality generically breaks down at high energies. A brief discussion of dualities, the Zwanziger formalism, and the spinor helicity method is also presented in the contexts of the Witten effect, the modular group, electric dipole moments, gauge anomalies, and non-Abelian magnetic charge. We also explore a new class of natural models which ensure the one-loop divergences in the Higgs mass are cancelled. The top-partners that cancel the top loop are new gauge bosons, and the symmetry relation that ensures the cancellation arises at an infrared fixed point. Such a cancellation mechanism can, a la Little Higgs models, push the scale of new physics that completely solves the hierarchy problem up to 5-10 TeV. When embedded in a supersymmetric model, the stop and gaugino masses provide the cutoffs for the loops, and the mechanism ensures a cancellation between the stop and gaugino mass dependence of the Higgs mass parameter. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Monitoring der longitudinalen Speicherringimpedanz von DELTA, Ein°uss auf BunchlÄange und BunchlÄangenmanipulation ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
The role of power sources in the European electricity mix ENDTITLE The role of power sources in the European electricity mix ENDTITLES The ongoing debate in Europe about energy transition enhances the necessity to evaluate the performance of the envisaged mix of power sources, in terms of production cost, CO2 emissions and security of supply. In this study, we use MIXOPTIM, a Monte-Carlo simulator of the behavior of a mix of power sources on a territory, to evaluate the performance of the present EU power mix. After a validation on the French mix, we applied it to the whole EU territory and made variational calculations around the present mix to evaluate the performance impacts induced by small changes in installed renewable power and nuclear power. According to the analyzed criteria, the study shows that a plausible way to keep an affordable MWh in Europe with minimal amount of CO2 emissions and acceptable security of supply could be to extend the life of existing Gen II nuclear reactors. All other options lead to the degradation of the mix performance, on at least one of the three criteria listed above. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
The development of the KATRIN magnet system ENDTITLE The development of the KATRIN magnet system ENDTITLES The Karlsruhe Tritium Neutrino Experiment KATRIN aims to measure the mass of the electron neutrino with unprecedented accuracy. For this experiment a special magnet system with about 30 LHe bath cooled superconducting magnets grouped in 10 different sections needs to be developed. The magnetic fields required for the electron transport and spectrometer resolution have a level between 3 and 6 T and must be constant in time over months. Further requirements for field homogeneity and tritium compatibility lead to a unique magnet system. A challenging task of this system is to keep the 10 m beam tube of the source magnet at a constant temperature of 30 K with extremely high temperature stability in time and length. This paper presents the general setup and the magnet system data, shows the main requirements, and gives a status about the ongoing work. Furthermore, the cooling concept of the beam tube is discussed. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Events Processing in the New DAQ of the COMPASS Experiment ENDTITLE Events Processing in the New DAQ of the COMPASS Experiment ENDTITLES Abstract: This paper describes the route of events through both hardware and software parts of the data acquisition system (DAQ) of the COMPASS experiment at CERN which implements FPGA based event-building. Data quality control is important part of any DAQ. During development of the COMPASS DAQ, a great emphasis was put on ability to recover from errors coming from frontend electronics and on possibility to easily identify origin of errors. Many tests are performed and additional headers are added to data stream by hardware. These headers are later analyzed by software. System was tested for the first time during run in the end of year 2014. Run was successful, but further improvements are planned. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Some approaches to three-point correlators in N=4 super Yang-Mills ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Sur la propagation de la chaleur en relativité ENDTITLE Sur La Propagation De La Chaleur En Relativité ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Simulations of axion string-wall networks ENDTITLES This thesis investigates the reliability of lattice simulations to reproduce the dynamics of the network of topological strings and domain walls that forms during the cosmological evolution of the axion field. Lattice simulations of axion string-wall networks are not capable of resolving the disparity in scale between the inter-string separation and string core size that exists for physically relevant axion models, but such simulations have been relied upon in the literature, without verification, to reproduce the dynamics of physical systems and place lower bounds on the axion mass. We performed lattice simulations of axion string-only networks that varied lattice parameters and simulations of the formation and collapse of string-wall networks that varied the ratio of string separation to core size. We find logarithmic corrections, dependent on the string separation-to-core ratio, to the scaling behaviour of axion string networks reported in past literature. We further see some indication that the dynamics of string-wall network collapse varies as this ratio changes. These results suggest that network dynamics could vary significantly for realistic networks compared to what lattice simulations are capable of resolving. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Search for the electroweak production of supersymmetric particles in three-lepton events at the ATLAS detector with focus on compressed mass spectra ENDTITLES This thesis presents a search for the electroweak production of supersymmetry using the dataset taken by the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider with √8 = 8 TeV during 2012. Events with three leptons are selected and required to satisfy additional kinematic criteria that define optimised signal regions. In these signal regions, Standard Model processes are discriminated against, whilst retaining a large fraction of events produced by specified compressed supersymmetry scenarios. Compressed refers to near massdegeneracy between the decaying gauginos and the final state gauginos. The expected number of Standard Model events are estimated using a combination of Monte Carlo and data-driven methods, where the predictions are tested against data in specifically designed validation regions. Exclusion limits are then set at 95% confidence level (CL) on via ℓ`L- and via WZ-decay scenarios for the decaying charginos and neutralinos. With the ℓ`L halfway between the decaying charginos and neutralinos and the final state neutralinos, there is a new sensitivity up to 250 GeV. In scenarios with large mass splitting, the decaying chargino and neutralino masses are excluded up to 740 GeV. Looking forward to the 13 TeV data-taking, a search for the electroweak production of supersymmetry with threelepton final states is presented, with a first look at an optimisation strategy to improve sensitivity to charginos and neutralinos. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Transmission spectra and valley processing of graphene and carbon nanotube superlattices with inter-valley coupling ENDTITLE Transmission spectra and valley processing of graphene and carbon nanotube superlattices with inter-valley coupling ENDTITLE Transmission spectra and valley processing of graphene and carbon nanotube superlattices with inter-valley coupling ENDTITLES We numerically investigate the electronic transport properties of graphene nanoribbons and carbon nanotubes with inter-valley coupling, e.g., in \sqrt{3}N \times \sqrt{3}N and 3N \times 3N superlattices. By taking the \sqrt{3} \times \sqrt{3} graphene superlattice as an example, we show that tailoring the bulk graphene superlattice results in rich structural configurations of nanoribbons and nanotubes. After studying the electronic characteristics of the corresponding armchair and zigzag nanoribbon geometries, we find that the linear bands of carbon nanotubes can lead to the Klein tunnelling-like phenomenon, i.e., electrons propagate along tubes without backscattering even in the presence of a barrier. Due to the coupling between K and K' valleys of pristine graphene by \sqrt{3} \times \sqrt{3} supercells,we propose a valley-field-effect transistor based on the armchair carbon nanotube, where the valley polarization of the current can be tuned by applying a gate voltage or varying the length of the armchair carbon nanotubes. ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Achievements and problems in the first commissioning of superKEKB vacuum system ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Transport coefficients and universality in hot strongly coupled gauge theories ENDTITLES The gauge/gravity duality provides a valuable opportunity to study the behavior of relativistic fluids described by some strongly-interacting non-Abelian gauge theories. However, as yet no gravity duals are known for the field theories that are currently used to describe nature. Thus, it is particularly interesting to search for universal properties of theories with gravity duals. This dissertation discusses a broad class of theories with gravity duals, and it is shown that at high temperatures, the speed of sound squared is bounded from above by one-third of the speed of light squared. It is conjectured that this may be a universal property of theories with gravity duals. It is also shown that the temperature dependence of a number of transport coefficients takes a universal form in the high-temperature limit. In particular, in a high-temperature expansion, the power law of the leading correction away from the infinite temperature limit is universal for all of the transport coefficients, and is the same as that of the speed of sound squared. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
From Black Strings to Lifshitz Black Branes ENDTITLE From Black Strings to Lifshitz Black Branes ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Thermodynamics and Universality in Anisotropic Higher Curvature Spacetimes ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Aspects of Holographic Thermalization ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Lifshitz Spacetime as a Window into Condensed Matter Physics ENDTITLES We study applications of the AdS/CFT correspondence to strongly coupled condensed matter theories. Specifically, we focus on Lifshitz spacetime, which was proposed as a gravity dual to field theories with Lifshitz scaling symmetry. We first show that higher derivative corrections, such as those arising from string theory, can resolve the apparent tidal singularity of pure Lifshitz spacetime in the deep infrared. We do so by explicitly constructing a toy-model of 4-derivative gravity coupled to Maxwell-dilaton theory to show that the singular horizon can be resolved into a nonsingular AdS2xR2 geometry. Next, we demonstrate that the non-relativistic Lifshitz symmetry leads to an effective tunneling barrier for matter fields propagating in Lifshitz spacetime. In particular, the tunneling barrier causes scalar modes to either grow or decay exponentially near the boundary. We investigate two consequences of this behavior: First, we show that the boundary-to-bulk correlator, or smearing function, is not well-defined in Lifshitz spacetime, due to a divergence at large momenta and small frequencies. Second, we show that the boundary retarded Green's function for scalar operators is insensitive to small changes in the near-horizon geometry. This insensitivity manifests itself in an exponentially small spectral function at low energies and large momenta. We show that this exponential behavior of the spectral weight is robust with respect to higher derivative corrections in the bulk, and is therefore a concrete prediction of AdS/CFT for condensed matter systems. We conclude by giving a field theory interpretation of the exponential behavior in terms of a non-perturbative resummation of Feynman diagrams. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Proton-driven plasma wakefield acceleration: a path to the future of high-energy particle physics ENDTITLE Proton-driven plasma wakefield acceleration: a path to the future of high-energy particle physics ENDTITLES New acceleration technology is mandatory for the future elucidation of fundamental particles and their interactions. A promising approach is to exploit the properties of plasmas. Past research has focused on creating large-amplitude plasma waves by injecting an intense laser pulse or an electron bunch into the plasma. However, the maximum energy gain of electrons accelerated in a single plasma stage is limited by the energy of the driver. Proton bunches are the most promising drivers of wakefields to accelerate electrons to the TeV energy scale in a single stage. An experimental program at CERN—the AWAKE experiment—has been launched to study in detail the important physical processes and to demonstrate the power of proton-driven plasma wakefield acceleration. Here we review the physical principles and some experimental considerations for a future proton-driven plasma wakefield accelerator. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Pump depletion limited evolution of the relativistic plasma wave-front in a forced laser-wakefield accelerator ENDTITLE Pump depletion limited evolution of the relativistic plasma wave-front in a forced laser-wakefield accelerator ENDTITLES In a forced laser-wakefield accelerator experiment (Malka et al 2002 Science 298 1596) where the length of the pump laser pulse is a few plasma periods long, the leading edge of the laser pulse undergoes frequency downshifting and head erosion as the laser energy is transferred to the wake. Therefore, after some propagation distance, the group velocity of the leading edge of the pump pulse—and thus of the driven electron plasma wave—will slow down. This can have implications for the dephasing length of the accelerated electrons and therefore needs to be understood experimentally. We have carried out an experimental investigation where we have measured the velocity vf of the 'wave-front' of the plasma wave driven by a nominally 50 fs (full width half maximum), intense (a0 sime 1), 0.815 µm laser pulse. To determine the speed of the wave front, time- and space-resolved refractometry, interferometry and Thomson scattering were used. Although a laser pulse propagating through a relatively low-density plasma (ne = 1.3 × 1019 cm−3) showed no measurable changes in vf over 1.3 mm (and no accelerated electrons), a high-density plasma (ne = 5 × 1019 cm−3) generated accelerated electrons and showed a continuous change in vf as the laser pulse propagated through the plasma. Possible causes and consequences of the observed vf evolution are discussed. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Pattern Comparator Asic For The Compact Muon Solenoid Experiment In CERN ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Rare event searches with CUORE style TeO2 bolometers ENDTITLES In this dissertation we report on the first search for solar axions from atomic transitions in the solar core. A search for the 14.4 keV axion from the ground state transition in 57Fe in the sun was also performed, via the axioelectric effect in TeO2 bolometers, in the CUORE-0 experiment. Both axion searches are performed in the scope of the DSFZ invisible axion model. An upper bound on the axion-electron coupling constant of gae ≤ 3.1 x 10–11 (95% CL) is obtained with 62.7 kg×days of Te O2 exposure from the CUORICINO experiment. The CUORE-0 data results in a upper bound on the product of the axion-electro and effective axion-nucleon of |gae x g effaN| ≤ 1.33 x 10 –17 (95% CL). Data from CUORE-0 was also used to place a bound on the half live for zero and two neutrino double beta decay of 130 Te. For CUORE-0 the zero neutrino double beta decay half life bound is T0νββ (130Te) > 2.7 x 1024 yr. When combined with the data from the earlier CUORICINO experiment the bound is T0νββ( 130Te) > 4.0 x 1024 yr. The two neutrino double beta decay half life of CUORE-0 was measured to be T0ν ββ(130Te) = {8.2 ± 0.2 (stat.) ± 0.6 (syst.)} x 1020 yr. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Design, Fabrication, Measurement, Installation and Alignment of 2 Types of Quadrupole-Sextupole Combined Magnets for the Upgrade of the 1.2 GeV Booster Synchrotron at Tohoku University ENDTITLES The upgrade of the 1.2 GeV booster synchrotron is part of the recovery program from the March 11 2011, Great East Japan Earthquake. The replacement of standard quadrupoles by combined quadrupole-sextupole magnets will tame the head-tail instability by changing the chromaticity from the natural, negative, values to positive values, and prevent the unstable m=0 mode to develop. In January 2012, Sigmaphi was awarded a contract for the design of 2 kinds of combined magnets and the fabrication of 8 magnets of each type, including rotating coil and Hall probe measurements of every unit. The contract also required disassembly of the old quadrupoles and installation of the new combined magnets, including disassembly/reassembly of the vacuum chambers and fitting with new UHV gaskets. Finally, all the booster magnets, namely 8 dipoles, 4 achromat quadrupoles and the 16 new combined function magnets were to be realigned within $\pm$0.2 mm accuracy by mid-January 2013. The presentation outlines the main steps of the different operations and presents the achievements and results. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
La dualidad gauge/gravedad y sus aplicaciones a la materia condensada ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Strings and AdS/CFT at finite density ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Topics in gauge/gravity duality ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Applications of holography to condensed matter Physics ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Phase transitions in holographic QCD and instanton crystals ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Soluzioni lineari per la propagazione del calore in fluidodinamica relativistica ENDTITLES We look for simple waves and for solutions with separate variables of the linearized equations for heat propagation with finite velocities. We compare the results with the classical ones. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Andamento del flusso dei muoni atmosferici in funzione della quantità di materia attraversata ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Thermodynamics of Higher Order Entropy Corrected Schwarzschild-Beltrami-de Sitter Black Hole ENDTITLE Thermodynamics of Higher Order Entropy Corrected Schwarzschild-Beltrami-de Sitter Black Hole ENDTITLES In this paper, we consider higher order correction of the entropy and study the thermodynamical properties of recently proposed Schwarzschild-Beltrami-de Sitter black hole, which is indeed an exact solution of Einstein equation with a positive cosmological constant. By using the corrected entropy and Hawking temperature we extract some thermodynamical quantities like Gibbs and Helmholtz free energies and heat capacity. We also investigate the first and second laws of thermodynamics. We find that presence of higher order corrections, which come from thermal fluctuations, may remove some instabilities of the black hole. Also unstable to stable phase transition is possible in presence of the first and second order corrections. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Exact solutions for a scalar-tensor theory through symmetries ENDTITLE Exact solutions for a scalar-tensor theory through symmetries ENDTITLES In this paper, we study how to determine the unknown functions for the scalar tensor model f(R,ϕ) where the Ricci scalar is allowed to appear in a nonlinear way. The methods followed to determine these functions are: the matter collineation approach, the Lie group method and the Lagrangian collineation approach. We find several exact analytical solutions for a cosmological model with a FRW metric. We determine that some of the results are also valid for some anisotropic metric (e.g. the self-similar ones). ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Formalising and analysing the control software of the Compact Muon Solenoid Experiment at the Large Hadron Collider ENDTITLE Formalising and analysing the control software of the Compact Muon Solenoid Experiment at the Large Hadron Collider ENDTITLES The control software of the CERN Compact Muon Solenoid experiment contains over 27 500 finite state machines. These state machines are organised hierarchically: commands are sent down the hierarchy and state changes are sent upwards. The sheer size of the system makes it virtually impossible to fully understand the details of its behaviour at the macro level. This is fuelled by unclarities that already exist at the micro level. We have solved the latter problem by formally describing the finite state machines in the mCRL2 process algebra. The translation has been implemented using the ASF+SDF meta-environment, and its correctness was assessed by means of simulations and visualisations of individual finite state machines and through formal verification of subsystems of the control software. Based on the formalised semantics of the finite state machines, we have developed dedicated tooling for checking properties that can be verified on finite state machines in isolation. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Effective Field Theory for Halo Nuclei ENDTITLE Effective Field Theory for Halo Nuclei ENDTITLES Halo nuclei are weakly bound systems that have a tightly bound core and a small number of weakly-bound valence nucleons. Halo effective field theory is the appropriate framework to describe such systems since it can use this separation of scales between the one-nucleon separation energy of the halo nucleus and the core nucleus to form the expansion parameter in a systematic low-energy expansion. We summarize recent progress in the description of weakly bound systems with halo effective field theory and focus on applications to the one-proton halo nuclei Fluorine-17 and Boron-8. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Simulation of beam-induced plasma in gas-filled rf cavities ENDTITLE Simulation of beam-induced plasma in gas-filled rf cavities ENDTITLES Processes occurring in a radio-frequency (rf) cavity, filled with high pressure gas and interacting with proton beams, have been studied via advanced numerical simulations. Simulations support the experimental program on the hydrogen gas-filled rf cavity in the Mucool Test Area (MTA) at Fermilab, and broader research on the design of muon cooling devices. space, a 3D electromagnetic particle-in-cell (EM-PIC) code with atomic physics support, was used in simulation studies. Plasma dynamics in the rf cavity, including the process of neutral gas ionization by proton beams, plasma loading of the rf cavity, and atomic processes in plasma such as electron-ion and ion-ion recombination and electron attachment to dopant molecules, have been studied. Through comparison with experiments in the MTA, simulations quantified several uncertain values of plasma properties such as effective recombination rates and the attachment time of electrons to dopant molecules. Simulations have achieved very good agreement with experiments on plasma loading and related processes. The experimentally validated code space is capable of predictive simulations of muon cooling devices. ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Об одном точном решении системы уравнений Эйнштейна и безмассового скалярного поля ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
(1+1) Newton-Hooke Group for the Simple and Damped Harmonic Oscillator ENDTITLE (1+1) Newton-Hooke Group for the Simple and Damped Harmonic Oscillator ENDTITLES It is demonstrated that, in the framework of the orbit method, a simple and damped harmonic oscillators are indistinguishable at the level of an abstract Lie algebra. In depth analysis of the coadjoint orbits of the (1+1) dimensional Newton-Hooke group are presented. Further, it is argued that the physical interpretation is carried by a specific realisation of the Lie algebra of smooth functions on a phase space rather than by an abstract Lie algebra. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Holographic Entanglement Entropy of Local Quenches in AdS4/CFT3 ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Parasupersymmetric formulation of a three-level atom coupled to a f-deformed two-dimensional potential system: eigenstates, spectrum and accidental degeneracies ENDTITLE Parasupersymmetric formulation of a three-level atom coupled to a f-deformed two-dimensional potential system: eigenstates, spectrum and accidental degeneracies ENDTITLES In this paper, within a parasupersymmetric and quantum deformed formalism, we continue studying a class of bound-state problems which represents the coupling of a three-level atom with a two-dimensional potential system, first introduced in Aleixo and Balantekin (2013 J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 055302). We obtain the solutions of the eigenvalue equation of the coupled system, determine its energy eigenvalues and their corresponding eigenstates. An illustrative application is worked out for a couple of shape-invariant potentials widely used to model quantum confined systems in several fields of physics assuming a simple form of the Tamm–Dancoff potential cutoff deformed formalism. We study the deformation effects on the splitting of the energy level produced by the coupling of the atomic system with the shape-invariant potential systems, considering the occurrence of degeneracy and accidental pairwise degeneracy in the energy levels of the coupled system. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
The dark universe: observables and degeneracies ENDTITLES We would like to explore the consequences of having no prior knowledge about the correct model for dark energy that would allow us to interpret observations. The magnitude of redshift-space distortions and weak gravitational lensing is determined by the metric on which galaxies and light propagate. With precise enough observations it is then possible to use this data to reconstruct the metric on our past lightcone, therefore anisotropic stress and gravitational potentials can be measured in a model-independent way. We explore the dark degeneracy, or the fact that dark matter and dark energy are indistinguishable, for they affect the visible sector only through the gravitational potential they produce. This degeneracy remains unless a dark energy model is provided: the bias between dark matter and galaxies cannot be determined; and only when the Equivalence Principle is valid, one can identify the velocities of dark matter with that of the galaxies. In spite of these limitations, it is possible to construct tests for classes of dark energy models that are based on measurements at different scales and redshifts and do not depend on parametrizations or initial conditions. We demonstrate how one can rule out the most general class of scalar-tensor models without having to assume quasi-staticity. Finally, we discuss how the dark degeneracy manifests itself in a model-dependent analysis. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Useful and little-known applications of the Least Square Method and some consequences of covariances ENDTITLE Useful and little-known applications of the Least Square Method and some consequences of covariances ENDTITLES Covariances are as important as variances when dealing with experimental data and they must be considered in fitting procedures and adjustments in order to preserve the statistical properties of the adjusted quantities. In this paper, we apply the Least Square Method in matrix form to several simple problems in order to evaluate the consequences of covariances in the fitting procedure. Among the examples, we demonstrate how a measurement of a physical quantity can change the adopted value of all other covariant quantities and how a new single point (x,y)(x,y) improves the parameters of a previously adjusted straight-line. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
The Dynamics of Scalar Fields in Cosmology ENDTITLE The Dynamics of Scalar Fields in Cosmology ENDTITLES Scalar field models have been a focal point in cosmology during the last two decades or so. They play a central role in inflationary models, they arise in modified gravity theories that extend Einstein’s General Relativity (GR) which are, often, quantum motivated, and, recently, they have been put forward as a dark component of the universe. Here we analyse their dynamics in the framework of isotropic cosmologies presenting an unified approach that encompasses models both in Einstein’s GR and more general metric gravity theories. We perform a qualitative analysis of the major dynamical features of these models, discussing the existence of asymptotic regimes and their connection to a classification of the scalar fields potentials and couplings. A special interest is devoted to the interplay between scalar fields and matter which gives rise to scaling behaviour. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Post-Inflationary Scalar Field Phase Dynamics ENDTITLE Post-Inflationary Scalar Field Phase Dynamics ENDTITLES We present a brief summary of the results of Charters et al. [1] where a simple model of a massive inflation field ϕ coupled to another scalar filed χ with interaction term g2ϕ2χ2 for the first stage of preheating, and we give a full description of the dynamics of the χ field modes, including the behaviour of the phase, in terms of the iteration of a simple family of circle maps. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Acreção de matéria exótica por buracos negros ENDTITLES In the last years, the interpretation of the cosmological scenario suffered uncountable modifications because of contribution of research in SNe Ia and galactic core. These studies demonstrate the presence of exotics components in the universe, the dark matter and the dark energy. Quintessencial models describe this dark energy as a scalar field coupled to gravity, considering the entire universe permeated by it. In the vicinity of a black hole, this field should be absorbed, modifying its distributions of mass. This accretion of this exotic mass has been interconnected at the case of primordial black holes, suggesting a possible mechanism for the formation of supermassive black holes. By using a quasi-stationary approach, we consider the mass evolution of Schwarzschild black holes in the presence of a nonminimally coupled cosmological scalar field. The mass evolution equation is analytically solved for generic coupling, revealing a qualitatively distinct behavior from the minimal coupling case. In particular, for black hole masses smaller than a certain critical value, the accretion of the scalar field can lead to mass decreasing even if no phantom energy is involved. The physical validity of the adopted quasi-stationary approach and some implications of our result for the evolution of primordial and astrophysical black holes are discussed. More precisely, we argue that black hole observational data could be used to place constraints on the nonminimally coupled energy content of the universe ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Algumas aplicações de fibrados principais em teorias de espaço-tempo ENDTITLES In this thesis we present some applications of the theory of principal fiber bundles in physics. In particular we extend the gauge principle to gauge theories with monopoles and study also the relation between Dirac's equation and the Maxwell's equation in spinorial form ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Detection of scintillation light in liquid xenon by multipixel avalanche Geiger photodiode and wavelength shifter ENDTITLE Detection of scintillation light in liquid xenon by multipixel avalanche Geiger photodiode and wavelength shifter ENDTITLES A multipixel avalanche Geiger photodiode with a p-terphenyl wavelength shifter in front of it has been tested in the liquid xenon to detect the 175-nm scintillation light. The detection efficiency of about 10% is obtained. A poly-para-xylylene film was used for protection of the liquid xenon detection medium from p-terphenyl pollution. The film has shown very good and stable adhesion at the low temperatures both to the p-terphenyl surface and to the surface of the stainless steel flange. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Relations involving the forward scattering amplitude in a Fermi gas ENDTITLE Relations involving the forward scattering amplitude in a Fermi gas ENDTITLES Several exact relationships are given for the ground state of a Fermi gas with interaction. These involve the two-particle forward scattering amplitude and the effective mass at the Fermi surface. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Development of VUV wavelength shifter for the use with a visible light photodetector in noble gas filled detectors ENDTITLE Development of VUV wavelength shifter for the use with a visible light photodetector in noble gas filled detectors ENDTITLES Development study of a wavelength shifter (WLS) to convert a noble gas emission light from the VUV region to the visible range is presented. The shifter is developed for the use with an array of blue-sensitive multipixel avalanche Geiger photodiodes (MRS APD) to detect Xe 175 nm emission. It was found that a polycrystalline p-terphenyl having an absorption peak at 180 nm with a molar extinction coefficient ε of 37500±5000 mol−1·l cm−1 is well suited for this. To satisfy a requirement of compatibility with an extra pure noble gas detection medium the p-terphenyl layer was coated with an ∼1 μm thick poly-para-xylylene protection film. A new WLS with maximum of emission spectrum at 390 nm and at 420 nm is developed on the basis of a nanostructured organosilicon luminophore. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
The Optical Mechanics of Gravity ENDTITLE The Optical Mechanics of Gravity ENDTITLES We have studied optical metrics via null geodesics, formulated classical mechanics in optical- mechanical terms, and described the geometry of mechanical systems with drag. Then, we apply the formulation to other solutions of Einstein's equations in spherically symmetric spaces and deduce the related Binet's equation. Finally, we review the dualities between different systems arising from conformal transformations that preserve the Jacobi metric. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Hochenergiephysik ENDTITLE Hochenergiephysik ENDTITLES Short Review of the actual state of High Energy Physics: Cosmic ray research — Accelerators for high energy particles — Instruments for detection of fast particles — Classification of elementary particles. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Compositeness criteria of particles in quantum field theory and S-matrix theory ENDTITLE Compositeness Criteria of Particles in Quantum Field Theory andS-Matrix Theory ENDTITLES A review is given of recent developments in compositeness arguments of particles in the framework of Lagrangian field theory and S-matrix theory. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
A search for spontaneous emission of heavy clusters in the 127I nuclide ENDTITLE A search for spontaneous emission of heavy clusters in the 127I nuclide ENDTITLES The results of an experimental search for spontaneous cluster decay in 127I are presented. Several possible channels have been investigated considering an exposure of 33834 kg . day collected by a large-mass highly radiopure NaI(Tl) set-up deep underground in the Gran Sasso National Laboratory of the INFN. New lower limits on the lifetime of 2410Ne, 2812Mg, 3012Mg, 3214Si, 3414Si, 4820Ca, 4921Sc cluster radioactivity in 127I have been achieved. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Search for spontaneous transition of nuclei to a superdense state ENDTITLE Search for spontaneous transition of nuclei to a superdense state ENDTITLES We report the results of an experimental search for spontaneous transition of nuclei from ordinary to superdense state in NaI(Tl). New limits on the superdense-state parameters are presented. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
New insights into holography from supersymmetric localization ENDTITLES Maldacena's conjecture, often known as the holographic duality or the AdS/CFT correspondence, proposes an equivalence between gravitational theories in a hyperbolic space of a certain dimensionality and gauge theories living on its boundary. The manner in which this connection is established makes the duality specially remarkable: both sides are thought to describe the very same string theoretic physics, but the validity regimes of the two descriptions are disjoint, and one expects either framework to be in its regime of validity the appropriate way to effectively reexpress the physics of the other. The nonintersection of these applicability regimes makes the duality very useful, but also very hard to verify and materialize. Notice the potential implications of this framework for theoretical physics: one direction, strongly coupled quantum field theories become in a certain regime describable as semiclassical gravitational spacetimes, while on the other direction certain string theories without semiclassical background obtain a clean and workable definition as gauge field theories. As a consequence of these facts, holography has played a central role in research since its appearance, almost two decades ago. However, despite numerous efforts devoted to its characterization, general understanding of the duality has only been majoritarely achieved around the regimes where the gravitational description becomes semiclassical. Consequently, the gauge-to-gravity direction of the duality is far less exploited than the opposite one, despite its conceptual relevance. Having available results for strongly coupled gauge theories would be of a great help in addressing holography in this comparatively underdevelopped direction, and they would set a fertile ground to test, refine and understand the holographic conjecture. These type of predictions are hard to come by, but not inexistent: non-renormalized magnitudes constitute their most paradygmatical example, and recently different techniques have obtained exact results at arbitrary coupling for specific obserable sectors. This thesis studies specifically one of these techniques, known as supersymmetric localization, and its role in shoring AdS/CFT. In particular, it restricts its analysis to a specific type of theory: Lagrangian N. = 2 SYM, and for specific results: half-BPS Wilson circular loops. Several interesting insights are put forward by its results. A first observation is that the exact functional dependence we obtain from localization offer a guide on how to extend holographic predictions from their validity regime to a finite gauge range which produces plausible results, although a great care has to be taken in this process. Complementarily, the study of this parametrical dependence for gauge N. = 4 theories with gauge Lie algebras presents two suggestive patterns: On the one hand, 't Hooft's topological expansion presents, at least for charges in fundamental representations, an underlying structure that relates sectors with different number of crosscaps among themselves. On the other hand, the matrix model structure obtained in the localization process can be interpreted in terms of a fermionic quantum mechanics, which at the 't Hooft limit matches the "bubbling geometry" structure of Lin, Lunin and Maldacena, but which persists at finite gauge group range. Finally, the comparison of localization results within a more general type of construction is pre-sented. The specific set of theories considered contains both examples with semiclassical holographic duals and examples where this type of geometry is precluded. Supersymmetric field predictions in this case differentiate both groups with qualitatively different behaviours in the matrix model. This suggests a possible connection between the matrix model structure and the semiclassical spacetime codification in the dual field theory. Similar observations have been made in the literature. This thesis, therefore, explicits a wide list of suggestions for holography that are motivated by lo-calization results in different regimes, even though the latter have been severely restricted to particular examples. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
The Higgs Boson in Less Constrained Supersymmetric Models ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Stability of β″ nano-phases in Al-Mg-Si(-Cu) alloy under high dose ion irradiation ENDTITLE Stability of β″ nano-phases in Al-Mg-Si(-Cu) alloy under high dose ion irradiation ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
On the origin of the primary ½ a0 <111> and a0 <100> loops in irradiated Fe(Cr) alloys ENDTITLE On the origin of the primary ½ a0 <111> and a0 <100> loops in irradiated Fe(Cr) alloys ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Influence of vacancy damage on He diffusion in apatite, investigated at atomic to mineralogical scales ENDTITLE Influence of vacancy damage on He diffusion in apatite, investigated at atomic to mineralogical scales ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Ion irradiation of carbonaceous chondrites: A new view of space weathering on primitive asteroids ENDTITLE Ion irradiation of carbonaceous chondrites: A new view of space weathering on primitive asteroids ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
SCALP, a platform dedicated to material modifications and characterization under ion beam ENDTITLE SCALP, a platform dedicated to material modifications and characterization under ion beam ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Nano-size metallic oxide particle synthesis in Fe-Cr alloys by ion implantation ENDTITLE Nano-size metallic oxide particle synthesis in Fe-Cr alloys by ion implantation ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Hadronic multiparticle production with Sibyll ENDTITLES An updated version of the hadronic interaction model Sibyll is presented. The model focuses on aspects important for cosmic ray interactions. The effect of the model extension on the interpretation of measurements are discussed. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Study of ionizing particle induced breakdown in liquid argon ENDTITLE Study of ionizing particle induced breakdown in liquid argon ENDTITLES In the course of some experiments using liquid argon as a spark-chamber medium, a higher probability of breakdown could be found in the area of the gap where an ionizing particle had penetrated. For very short high-voltage pulses a slight diminution of the dielectric strength of liquid argon could be observed if the voltage was applied shortly after the passage of an ionizing particle. The observations, although only little above background, indicate that impact ionization should be of importance for the initiation of the breakdown process in liquid argon. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Study of high-multiplicity 3-prong $\tau$ decays at BaBar ENDTITLES This work presents measurements of the branching fractions for $\tau$ decays to 3-prong final states using a data set of 430 million $\tau$ lepton pairs, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 468 fb$^{−1}$, collected with the BaBar detector at the PEP-II asymmetric energy $e^+ e^−$ storage rings. The τ− → (3π)−ηντ, τ− → π−2π0ωντ and τ− → f1(1285)π−ντ branching fractions are presented as well as a measurement of the non-resonant component of the τ− → (3π)−3π0ντ decay. In addition this work sets a new limit on the branching fraction of the isospin-forbidden, second-class current decayτ− →π−η′(958)ντ. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Femtoscopy of proton-proton collisions in the ALICE experiment ENDTITLES The Large Ion Collider Experiment (ALICE) at CERN has been designed to study matter at extreme conditions of temperature and pressure, with the long term goal of observing deconfined matter (free quarks and gluons), study its properties and learn more details about the phase diagram of nuclear matter. The ALICE experiment provides excellent particle tracking capabilities in high multiplicity proton-proton and heavy ion collisions, allowing to carry out detailed research of nuclear matter. This dissertation presents the study of the space time structure of the particle emission region, also known as femtoscopy, in proton-proton collisions at 0.9, 2.76 and 7.0 TeV. The emission region can be characterized by taking advantage of the Bose-Einstein effect for identical particles, which causes an enhancement of produced identical pairs at low relative momentum. The geometry of the emission region is related to the relative momentum distribution of all pairs by the Fourier transform of the source function, therefore the measurement of the final relative momentum distribution allows to extract the initial space-time characteristics. Results show that there is a clear dependence of the femtoscopic radii on event multiplicity as well as transverse momentum, a signature of the transition of nuclear matter into its fundamental components and also of strong interaction among these. The present work also considers a physics motivated parametrization of non-femtoscopic correlations to characterize the background signal. It is shown that at these high energies and multiplicities this parametrization does not work as it does for lower energies. A special chapter containing the detailed study of possible signatures of black hole formation is also presented. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Wavepackets in inhomogeneous periodic media: Effective particle-field dynamics and Berry curvature ENDTITLE Wavepackets in inhomogeneous periodic media: effective particle-field dynamics and Berry curvature ENDTITLE Wavepackets in inhomogeneous periodic media: Effective particle-field dynamics and Berry curvature ENDTITLES We consider a model of an electron in a crystal moving under the influence of an external electric field: Schr\"{o}dinger's equation with a potential which is the sum of a periodic function and a general smooth function. We identify two dimensionless parameters: (re-scaled) Planck's constant and the ratio of the lattice spacing to the scale of variation of the external potential. We consider the special case where both parameters are equal and denote this parameter $\epsilon$. In the limit $\epsilon \downarrow 0$, we prove the existence of solutions known as semiclassical wavepackets which are asymptotic up to `Ehrenfest time' $t \sim \ln 1/\epsilon$. To leading order, the center of mass and average quasi-momentum of these solutions evolve along trajectories generated by the classical Hamiltonian given by the sum of the Bloch band energy and the external potential. We then derive all corrections to the evolution of these observables proportional to $\epsilon$. The corrections depend on the gauge-invariant Berry curvature of the Bloch band, and a coupling to the evolution of the wave-packet envelope which satisfies Schr\"{o}dinger's equation with a time-dependent harmonic oscillator Hamiltonian. This infinite dimensional coupled `particle-field' system may be derived from an `extended' $\epsilon$-dependent Hamiltonian. It is known that such coupling of observables (discrete particle-like degrees of freedom) to the wave-envelope (continuum field-like degrees of freedom) can have a significant impact on the overall dynamics. ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Triggering of a pressurized spark gap by a laser beam ENDTITLE Triggering of a pressurized spark gap by a laser beam ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
The Scharnhorst effect: Superluminality and causality in effective field theories ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
First detection of extensive air showers with the EEE experiment ENDTITLES The Extreme Energy Events (EEE) Project is devoted to the study of extremely high energy cosmic rays by means of an array of particle detectors distributed all over the Italian territory. Each element of the array (called telescope in the following) is installed in a High School, with the further goal to introduce students to particle and astroparticle physics, and consists of three Multigap Resistive Plate Chambers (MRPC), that have excellent time resolution and good tracking capability. In this paper the first results on the detection of extensive air showers by means of time coincidences between two telescopes are presented. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
On the origin of quantum mechanics ENDTITLE On the origin of quantum mechanics ENDTITLE On the origin of quantum mechanics ENDTITLES Action at distance in Newtonian physics is replaced by finite propagation speeds in classical post--Newtonian physics. As a result, the differential equations of motion in Newtonian physics are replaced by functional differential equations, where the delay associated with the finite propagation speed is taken into account. Newtonian equations of motion, with post--Newtonian corrections, are often used to approximate the functional differential equations. Are the finite propagation speeds the origin of the quantum mechanics? In this work a simple atomic model based on a functional differential equation which reproduces the quantized Bohr atomic model is presented. As straightforward application of the result the fine structure of the hydrogen atom is approached. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
On the origin of the anomalous precession of Mercury's perihelion ENDTITLE On the origin of the anomalous precession of Mercury's perihelion ENDTITLES Action at distance in Newtonian physics is replaced by finite propagation speeds in classical post--Newtonian physics. As a result, the differential equations of motion in Newtonian physics are replaced by functional differential equations, where the delay associated with the finite propagation speed is taken into account. Newtonian equations of motion, with post--Newtonian corrections, are often used to approximate the functional differential equations. In ``On the origin of quantum mechanics'', preprint, physics/0505181, May 2005, a simple atomic model based on a functional differential equation which reproduces the quantized Bohr atomic model was presented. The unique assumption was that the electrodynamic interaction has a finite propagation speed. In ``On the origin of the gravitational quantization: The Titius--Bode Law'', preprint, physics/0507072, Jul 2005, a simple gravitational model based on a functional differential equation which gives a gravitational quantification and an explanation of the modified Titius--Bode law is described. Firstly, in this work, we recall the calculations made by Einstein to arrive at the explanation of the anomalous precession of Mercury's perihelion. Secondly, we recover an ancient work of Gerber in 1898 as a precursor of the retarded theories. In this paper Gerber gave an explanation of the anomalous precession of the Mercury's perihelion in terms of a velocity--dependent potential. In this paper an explanation of the anomalous precession of Mercury's perihelion is given in terms of a simple retarded potential, which, at first order, coincides with Gerber's potential, and which agrees with the author's previous works. ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
On the origin of the anomalous precession of Mercury's perihelion ENDTITLE On the origin of the anomalous precession of Mercury's perihelion ENDTITLES Action at distance in Newtonian physics is replaced by finite propagation speeds in classical post--Newtonian physics. As a result, the differential equations of motion in Newtonian physics are replaced by functional differential equations, where the delay associated with the finite propagation speed is taken into account. Newtonian equations of motion, with post--Newtonian corrections, are often used to approximate the functional differential equations. In ``On the origin of quantum mechanics'', preprint, physics/0505181, May 2005, a simple atomic model based on a functional differential equation which reproduces the quantized Bohr atomic model was presented. The unique assumption was that the electrodynamic interaction has a finite propagation speed. In ``On the origin of the gravitational quantization: The Titius--Bode Law'', preprint, physics/0507072, Jul 2005, a simple gravitational model based on a functional differential equation which gives a gravitational quantification and an explanation of the modified Titius--Bode law is described. Firstly, in this work, we recall the calculations made by Einstein to arrive at the explanation of the anomalous precession of Mercury's perihelion. Secondly, we recover an ancient work of Gerber in 1898 as a precursor of the retarded theories. In this paper Gerber gave an explanation of the anomalous precession of the Mercury's perihelion in terms of a velocity--dependent potential. In this paper an explanation of the anomalous precession of Mercury's perihelion is given in terms of a simple retarded potential, which, at first order, coincides with Gerber's potential, and which agrees with the author's previous works. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
On the origin of the inertia: The modified Newtonian dynamics theory ENDTITLE On the origin of the inertia: The modified Newtonian dynamics theory ENDTITLES It is shown that the identity between inertial mass and gravitational mass is an assumption to establish the equivalence principle. In the context of Sciama’s inertia theory, the identity between the inertial mass and the gravitational mass is discussed and a certain condition which must be experimentally satisfied is given. The inertial force proposed by Sciama, in a simple case, is derived from Assis’ inertia theory based in the introduction of a Weber type force. The origin of the inertial force is totally justified taking into account that the Weber force is, in fact, an approximation of a simple retarded potential, see [Giné J. On the origin of the anomalous precession of Mercury’s perihelion. Chaos, Solitons & Fractals 2008;38(4): 1004-10. Giné J. On the origin of deflection of the light. Chaos, Solitons & Fractals 2008;35(1):1–6]. The way how the inertial forces are also derived from some solutions of the general relativistic equations is presented. We wonder whether the theory of inertia of Assis is included in the framework the General Relativity. In the context of the inertia developed in the present paper, we establish the relation between the constant acceleration a0, that appears in the classical modified Newtonian dynamics (MOND) theory, with the Hubble constant H0, i.e. a0 ≈ cH0. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
An equivalent circuit model and power calculations for the APS SPX crab cavities ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
3-D density imaging with muon flux measurements from underground galleries ENDTITLE 3-D density imaging with muon flux measurements from underground galleries ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Stripping off hydrogens in imidazole triggered by the attachment of a single electron ENDTITLE Stripping off hydrogens in imidazole triggered by the attachment of a single electron ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
A dynamics-free lower bound on the mass of our Galaxy ENDTITLE A dynamics-free lower bound on the mass of our Galaxy ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Design and commissioning of the RIKEN cryogenic electrostatic ring (RICE) ENDTITLE Design and commissioning of the RIKEN cryogenic electrostatic ring (RICE) ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Studies on Wilson loops, correlators and localization in supersymmetric quantum field theories ENDTITLES In this thesis we study at perturbative level correlation functions of Wilson loops (and local operators) and their relations to localization, integrability and other quantities of interest as the cusp anomalous dimension and the Bremsstrahlung function. First of all we consider a general class of 1/8 BPS Wilson loops and chiral primaries in N=4 Super Yang-Mills theory. We perform explicit two-loop computations, for some particular but still rather general configuration, that confirm the elegant results expected from localization procedure. We find notably full consistency with the multi-matrix model averages, obtained from 2D Yang-Mills theory on the sphere, when interacting diagrams do not cancel and contribute non-trivially to the final answer. We also discuss the near BPS expansion of the generalized cusp anomalous dimension with L units of R-charge. Integrability provides an exact solution, obtained by solving a general TBA equation in the appropriate limit: we propose here an alternative method based on supersymmetric localization. The basic idea is to relate the computation to the vacuum expectation value of certain 1/8 BPS Wilson loops with local operator insertions along the contour. Also these observables localize on a two-dimensional gauge theory on S^2, opening the possibility of exact calculations. As a test of our proposal, we reproduce the leading Luscher correction at weak coupling to the generalized cusp anomalous dimension. This result is also checked against a genuine Feynman diagram approach in N=4 super Yang-Mills theory. Finally we study the cusp anomalous dimension in N=6 ABJ(M) theory, identifying a scaling limit in which the ladder diagrams dominate. The resummation is encoded into a Bethe-Salpeter equation that is mapped to a Schroedinger problem, exactly solvable due to the surprising supersymmetry of the effective Hamiltonian. In the ABJ case the solution implies the diagonalization of the U(N) and U(M) building blocks, suggesting the existence of two independent cusp anomalous dimensions and an unexpected exponentation structure for the related Wilson loops. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Aspects of micro black hole evaporation ENDTITLES Considering the existence of the large extra dimensions, creation of the micro black holes during the high energy collisions is unavoidable. Having formed in these kind of process, these tiny objects won’t have chance to live for long and they evaporate instantly after formation. Different aspects of evaporation of micro black holes have been dis- cussed in this dissertation. In this dissertation we reviewed the importance of the grey-body fac- tors as well as the existing techniques for their derivation. We also investigated an alternative way for calculation of the grey-body fac- tors which simplifies the wave equations drastically and gives us the opportunity to have analytical form of these factors even in the high energy ranges. We used the large-D limit of general relativity to cal- culate the graviton grey body factors for a non-rotating micro black hole and we found exactly the same analytical expression for tensor and vector type gravitational perturbations as it was in the litera- ture. We also investigated the properties of possible signals of micro black hole decay that might be seen in the detectors using most recent Monte-Carlo micro black hole event generators. We investigated the wave equations of a perturbed dynamical space time, out-going Vaidya space-time with linear mass function, in de- tails. Using both numerical and analytical techniques we calculated the quasi-normal modes of an evaporating black hole in the out-going Vaidya background. Keywords: micro black holes, evaporation, gravitons, grey-body factors, large dimensions, quasi-normal modes,Vaidya metric ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Cosmology with Varying Constants from a Thermodynamic Viewpoint ENDTITLE Cosmology with Varying Constants from a Thermodynamic Viewpoint ENDTITLES We study the variation of fundamental constants in cosmology while dealing with thermodynamic aspects of gravity. We focus on the variation of the speed of light, c, and Newton’s gravitational constant, G, with respect to cosmic time. We find the constraints on the possible variation of these constants by comparing varying constants of cosmological models with the latest observational data. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Scaling of entanglement entropy in some condensed matter systems ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
On entanglement negativity in 1+1 and 2+1 dimensional quantum systems ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Colliding branes and its application to string cosmology ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Black Hole Lensing and Wave Bursts ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Starobinsky Inflation: From Non-Susy To Sugra Realizations ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Quantum thermalization dynamics with Matrix-Product States ENDTITLE Quantum thermalization dynamics with Matrix-Product States ENDTITLES We study the dynamics of thermalization following a quantum quench using tensor-network methods. Contrary to the common belief that the rapid growth of entanglement and the resulting exponential growth of the bond dimension restricts simulations to short times, we demonstrate that the long time limit of local observables can be well captured using the time-dependent variational principle. This allows to extract transport coefficients such as the energy diffusion constant from simulations with rather small bond dimensions. We further study the characteristic of the chaotic wave that precedes the emergence of hydrodynamics. Both the butterfly velocity and the Lyapunov exponent are shown to converge with rather small bond dimension. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Search for the pair production of Higgsinos in pp collisions at √ s = 13 TeV in final states with Higgs bosons and large missing transverse momentum ENDTITLES Results are reported from a search for new physics in proton-proton collisions leading to an experimental signature with two Higgs bosons and large missing momentum in the direction transverse to the beam axis. This signature can arise in the context of supersymmetry, where a broad class of models predicts the electroweak production of a pair of Higgsinos, each of which can decay via a cascade process to a final state with a Higgs boson and the lightest supersymmetric particle (LSP). The LSPs remain undetected, producing the large missing transverse momentum characteristic for these events. The search uses a 35.9 fb−1 sample of proton-proton collision data at √ s = 13 TeV, accumulated by the CMS experiment at the LHC. The observed event yield in the signal region is found to be consistent with the expected standard model background predicted from control regions in the data. Higgsinos with mass in the range 225 − 770 GeV are excluded at 95% CL using a simplified model framework for the production and decay of approximately degenerate Higgsinos in the context of gauge mediated supersymmetry breaking. ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Cosmological and Astrophysical Probes of Physics Beyond the Standard Model ENDTITLES Cosmology, carrying imprints from the entire history of the universe, has emerged as a precise observational science over the past 30 years. It can probe physics beyond the Standard Model at energy scales much higher than the weak scale. This thesis reports on some important probes of beyond standard model physics derived in a cosmological setting - (I) It is shown that primordial gravitational waves left over from inflation carry unique detectable CMB signatures for neutrino masses, axions and any other relativistic species that may have been present. (II) Higgs Inflation, the most popular and compelling inflation model with a higgs boson is studied next and it is shown that quantum effects have so far been incorrectly incorporated. A spurious gauge ambiguity arising from quantum effects enters the canonical prediction for observables in Higgs Inflation that must be addressed. (III) A new novel mechanism for generating the observed baryon asymmetry of the universe via decaying gravitinos is proposed. If the Supersymmetry (SUSY) breaking scale is high, then in the presence of R-parity violation, gravitinos can successfully reproduce the baryon asymmetry and evade all low energy constraints. (IV) The final chapter reports on a new completely general analysis of simplified models used in direct detection of dark matter. This is useful to explore what high energy physics constraints can be obtained from direct detection experiments. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Analisis cosmologicos con no-Gaussianidad primordial y magnificacion debida al efecto lente debil ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Compact Objects in General Relativity and Beyond ENDTITLES General relativity passed all experimental tests in the weak-field regime, what made it the standard theory of gravity. However, the characterization of strong field regime of general relativity is still a challenge, due to the lack of definitive observational data from high curvature regions. It is in the strong regime that general relativity shows its subtleties and where it is possible to test whether or not general relativity should be replaced by an improved theory of gravity. High curvature regions – and therefore regions of strong field – are possible in the vicinity of compact gravitating objects, such as neutron stars, exotic stars, and black holes. Therefore, these compact objects are excellent laboratories to put constraints and to test theories of gravity in the strong regime. The outcome of the investigation of phenomena around these objects may confront crucial characteristics of general relativity as well as rule out possible alternative theories of gravity. With the advent of potential gravitational wave detectors and new or improved telescopes, it is of utmost importance to study the phenomenology around compact astrophysical objects – to understand the nature of the gravitational objects, to improve the description of the current theoretical models, and to understand the theory of gravity itself. In this thesis, we present a collection of studies on compact objects in general relativity and alternative theories of gravity. The thesis is divided in three main parts. In the first part, we discuss some solutions associated with compact objects. In Chapter 1 we obtain, in closed analytic form, slowly rotating black hole solutions of a general class of theories of gravity, for which the Einstein-Hilbert action is supplemented by all possible quadratic, algebraic curvature invariants coupled to a scalar field. We also discuss possible implications of this solution to the description of accretion disk (thermal) emissions. In Chapter 2 we investigate slowly rotating anisotropic neutron stars in general relativity and in scalar-tensor theories of gravity. We discuss the effect of the fluid anisotropy in the so-called spontaneous scalarization of stars. We also discuss possible ways to constraint the anisotropy of neutron stars. In the second part, we discuss wave-emission processes around compact objects and quasinormal modes. In Chapter 3 we calculate the emission of scalar waves by a particle orbiting a Kerr black hole, within the context of quantum field theory in curved spacetimes at tree level. In Chapter 5 we discuss astrophysical signatures of a plausible supplant to black holes: boson stars. We obtain quasinormal modes – polar and axial – of boson stars within a fully relativistic approach. We also compute the emission of gravito-scalar waves by a particle in circular orbits around boson stars, showing that the star modes “resonate” for some orbits. In Chapter 4 we discuss two different methods to compute the quasinormal modes of spherically symmetric astrophysical environments, namely: the direct integration method and the continued fraction method. In Chapter 6 we discuss the effect of accretion and dynamical friction in the motion and gravitational wave emission of a particle orbiting around – and through – a dark matter star. We model the dark matter star using uniform density stars and using boson stars. We discuss the cases for which the motion of the particle is subsonic and supersonic. In the last part, we discuss planar massless scalar waves impinging upon compact objects, considering their absorption and scattering cross sections. In Chapter 8 we compute the absorption cross section of planar massless scalar waves on Kerr black holes. We consider different angles of incidence, such that we explore the role of the rotation of the black hole into the absorption cross section. We also use the “sinc” approximation to compute the absorption cross of Kerr black holes and compare it with our numerical results. In Chapter 9 we analyze a wave incident on a Schwarzschild black hole surrounded by a thin spherical shell. We show that in the low-frequency limit the absorption cross section approaches the area of the black hole, regardless of the shell characteristics (position and mass). However, in the mid-to-high-frequency limit we show, numerically and analytically, that the absorption cross section can considerably differ from the case of an isolated Schwarzschild black hole with the same ADM mass. In Chapters 10 and 11 we study the absorption and scattering of waves, respectively, incident upon a Bardeen regular black hole. We show that Bardeen black holes can mimic some properties of Reissner-Nordstr¨om black holes, considering absorption and scattering of fields. Keywords: compact objects; general relativity; alternative theories of gravity; black holes; neutron stars. Fields of Knowledge (CNPq): 1.05.01.03-7, 1.05.03.01-3, 1.04.02.00-4. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
NATURALNESS, MONOPOLES, AND DARK MATTER ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
String inspired soft terms and the Higgs mass in the NMSSM ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Hawking Radiation and Black Hole Evaporation ENDTITLE Hawking Radiation and Black Hole Evaporation ENDTITLES This chapter is devoted to the most important property of black holes when quantum effects are included, Hawking radiation. Black holes emit quantum radiation with an almost perfect black body spectrum, and therefore ultimately evaporate. We outline the computation and properties of Hawking radiation from both four-dimensional and higher-dimensional black holes. ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Defeitos topológicos em teorias modificadas da gravitação: soluções clássicas e modos quasinormais ENDTITLES Recent observations seemed to indicate that the rate of the expansion of the universe is accelerating. Such observation, along with the fact that only approximately 5% of its content is composed of barionic matter, suggests that it is necessary to modify general relativity, in order to explain this acceleration. In this thesis, we study some wellknown proprosal for such endeavour, such as f(R) theories of gravity, Brans-Dicke theory and Lovelock theories. These models are studied in three subjects, namelly: The relation between these theories, in particular, the correspondence between Brans-Dicke and f(R) theories; classical gravitating solutions involving cosmic strings; and the quasinormal modes of black holes, in composition with topological defects (cosmic strings and monopoles). The classical solutions are studied numerically, and the astrophysical and cosmological effects due to the defect are analyzed. We found that, for a specific class of f(R) theories, such as f(R) = R - 2 + R2 + Rm, with m > 2, the angular deficit generated by the defect is attenuated, and the attenuation increases as the value of m decreases. In the context of quasinormal modes, we calculate the spectrum of quasinormal modes of a black hole, with a global monopole, in f(R) theories. After that, we study how this spectrum differs from the same system in general relativity. We also calculate the spectrum of a black hole, with a cloud of strings, in Lovelock gravity. After that we study how this spectrum differs from the spectrum of the same system, without the clound of strings. Also, we compare it with the same system, with a cloud of strings, but now in general relativity. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Kinetic approach to relativistic dissipation ENDTITLE Kinetic approach to relativistic dissipation ENDTITLES Despite a long record of intense efforts, the basic mechanisms by which dissipation emerges from the microscopic dynamics of a relativistic fluid still elude a complete understanding. In particular, no unique pathway from kinetic theory to hydrodynamics has been identified as yet, with different approaches leading to different values of the transport coefficients. In this Letter, we approach the problem by matching data from lattice kinetic simulations with analytical predictions. Our numerical results provide neat evidence in favour of the Chapman-Enskog procedure, as suggested by recently theoretical analyses, along with qualitative hints at the basic reasons why the Chapman-Enskog expansion might be better suited than Grad's method to capture the emergence of dissipative effects in relativistic fluids. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Averaged Null Energy Condition ENDTITLES The achronal averaged null energy condition (ANEC) is a sufficient condition to rule out exotic spacetimes such as time machines and wormholes. We review how achronal ANEC is used to prove such restrictions, and the status of the condition. We find counterexamples to achronal ANEC using conformally coupled scalar test fields in a conformally flat background. These examples involve rapid variation in the stress-energy tensor in the vicinity of the geodesic under consideration, suggesting that averaging in additional dimensions would yield a principle universally obeyed by quantum fields. However, we further develop counterexamples to alternative transversely averaged energy conditions. In order to arrive at a valid energy condition, we must then either restrict to minimal coupling or to self consistent rather than arbitrary background metrics. We construct a state as a candidate reference state for quantum difference inequalities, which could then be used to prove ANEC in these conditions. The proposed recently massless vacuum is defined for a region of spacetime which may be embedded in a manifold which for all times prior to some recent Cauchy surface has vanishing potential energy. It is similar to the standard in vacuum, with a modified spacetime taking the place of an asymptotically distant massless region. This allows us to focus on the contribution of local terms to the stress tensor. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Limitantes desde estabilidad del vacıo, unitariedad perturbativa y parametros oblicuos en el modelo con dos dobletes de Higgs ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
A cyclic cosmology ENDTITLES It is speculated how dark energy in a braneworld can help reconcile an infinitely cyclic cosmology with the second law of thermodynamics. A cyclic model featuring dark energy with a phantom (w < −1) equation of state leads to a turnaround at a time just before a would-be Big Rip at one end of the cycle and a bounce just before a would be crunch at the other. At the turnaround, both the volume and entropy of our universe decrease by a gigantic factor while very many independent small contracting universes are spawned. The entropy of our model decreases to nearly zero as it approaches the turnaround after which it increases by only a vanishing amount during the contracting stage, empty of matter. Shortly after the bounce, the entropy increases by a large factor during inflationary expansion. We next examine the content of the contracting universe (cu) and its entropy Scu. We find that in addition to dark energy, the universe contains zero photons on average (with the unlikely single photon, if present immediately after the turnaround, having infinitesimal energy that blue shifts eventually to produce e+e− pairs). These statements are independent of the equation of state ω = p/ρ of dark energy provided ω < −1. Thus Scu = 0 and if observations confirm ω < −1 the entropy problem is solved. We discuss the absence of a theoretical lower bound on φ = |ω+1| and then describe an anthropic fine tuning argument that renders unlikely an extremely small φ. The present bound φ < 0.1 already implies a time until turnaround of (tT − t0) & 100 Gy. The requirement that our universe satisfy a CBE-condition (Comes Back Empty) imposes a lower bound on the number Ncp of causal patches which separate at turnaround. This bound depends on the dark energy equation of state w = p/ρ = −1 − φ with φ > 0. More accurate measurement of φ will constrain Ncp. The critical density ρc in the model has a lower bound ρc ≥ (109GeV)4 or ρc ≥ (1018GeV)4 when the smallest bound state has size 10−15m, or 10−35m, respectively. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
The Higgs boson and right-handed neutrinos in supersymmetric models ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Vacuum Stability in the Standard Model and Beyond ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Higgs Phenomenology and The Hamiltonian Truncation Method ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Weyl Invariance in the gravitational sector ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Teoria Quântica em uma Subvariedade ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Gravitational lensing by black holes and their alternatives ENDTITLE Gravitational lensing by black holes and their alternatives ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
A cost-effective monitoring technique in particle therapy via uncollimated prompt gamma peak integration ENDTITLE A cost-effective monitoring technique in particle therapy via uncollimated prompt gamma peak integration ENDTITLES For the purpose of detecting deviations from the prescribed treatment during particle therapy, the integrals of uncollimated prompt gamma-ray timing distributions are investigated. The intention is to provide information, with a simple and cost-effective setup, independent from monitoring devices of the beamline. Measurements have been performed with 65MeV protons at a clinical cyclotron. Prompt gamma-rays emitted from the target are identified by means of time-of-flight. The proton range inside the PMMA target has been varied via a modulator wheel. The measured variation of the prompt gamma peak integrals as a function of the modulator position is consistent with simulations. With detectors covering a solid angle of 25 msr (corresponding to a diameter of 3–4 in. at a distance of 50 cm from the beam axis) and 108 incident protons, deviations of a few per cent in the prompt gamma-ray count rate can be detected. For the present configuration, this change in the count rate corresponds to a 3mm change in the proton range in a PMMA target. Furthermore, simulation studies show that a combination of the signals from multiple detectors may be used to detect a misplacement of the target. A different combination of these signals results in a precise number of the detected prompt gamma rays, which is independent on the actual target position. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Kr369660–Low-Z Boundary of the Island of Deformation at N=60 ENDTITLE Kr369660 –Low- Z Boundary of the Island of Deformation at N=60 ENDTITLES Prompt γ-ray spectroscopy of the neutron-rich 96Kr, produced in transfer- and fusion-induced fission reactions, has been performed using the combination of the Advanced Gamma Tracking Array and the VAMOSþþspectrometer. A second excited state, assigned to Jπ ¼ 4þ, is observed for the first time, and a previously reported level energy of the first 2þ excited state is confirmed. The measured energy ratio R4=2 ¼ Eð4þÞ=Eð2þÞ ¼ 2.12ð1Þ indicates that this nucleus does not show a well-developed collectivity contrary to that seen in heavier N ¼ 60 isotones. This new measurement highlights an abrupt transition of the degree of collectivity as a function of the proton number at Z ¼ 36, of similar amplitude to that observed at N ¼ 60 at higher Z values. A possible reason for this abrupt transition could be related to the insufficient proton excitations in the g9=2, d5=2, and s1=2 orbitals to generate strong quadrupole correlations or to the coexistence of competing different shapes. An unexpected continuous decrease of R4=2 as a function of the neutron number up to N ¼ 60 is also evidenced. This measurement establishes the Kr isotopic chain as the low-Z boundary of the island of deformation for N ¼ 60 isotones. A comparison with available theoretical predictions using different beyond mean-field approaches shows that these models fail to reproduce the abrupt transitions at N ¼ 60 and Z ¼ 36. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Simulating the Universe: Nonlinear Formation and Evolution of Cosmic Structure ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Class of gauge-invariant models of quantum electrodynamics with nonlocal interaction ENDTITLE Class of gauge-invariant models of quantum electrodynamics with nonlocal interaction ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Perturbative Approach to Integrability in Three-Dimensional Chern-Simons Theories ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
A new experimental approach to probe QCD Axion Dark Matter in the mass range above 40 µeV ENDTITLES Axions represent a class of particles that emerge in theoretical models explaining several mysteries of high-energy particle physics and cosmology. They explain the absence of CP violation in the strong interaction, provide dark matter candidates, and can be responsible for inflation and structure formation in the early universe. Several searches for axions and axion-like particles have constrained the parameter space over the last decades, however, no hints of axions have been found. The mass range of 1–1000 µeV remains highly attractive and well motivated region for dark matter axions. In this White Paper we present a description of a new experiment based on the concept of a dielectric haloscope for the search for dark matter axions in the mass range 40–400 µeV. The experiment, called MADMAX, will consist of several parallel dielectric layers, whose separations can be adjusted and are placed in a strong magnetic field. This would lead to the emission of axion induced electromagnetic waves in the 10–100 GHz domain, with the frequency given by the axion mass. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Schroedinger Equation in Rotating Frame by using Stochastic Variational Method ENDTITLE Schroedinger Equation in Rotating Frame by using Stochastic Variational Method ENDTITLES We give a pedagogical introduction of the stochastic variational method by considering the quantization of a non-inertial particle system. We show that the effects of fictitious forces are represented in the forms of vector fields which behave analogous to the gauge fields in the electromagnetic interaction. We further discuss that the operator expressions for observables can be defined by applying the stochastic Noether theorem. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
The Infrared Stability of de Sitter Quantum Field Theory ENDTITLES In this thesis we investigate the infrared behavior of interacting massive scalar field theories on de Sitter space. We consider theories with arbitrary polynomial couplings in general spacetime dimension, and we include scalars in both the complementary and principal series of the de Sitter group SO(D; 1). We focus our attention on the Hartle-Hawking state. This state is defined by the analytic continuation of the vacuum correlation functions computed on the Euclidean section of de Sitter. Our primary result is to show that in any theory of interacting massive scalars the Hartle-Hawking state is perturbatively well-defined and stable in the infrared. We prove this result to all orders in perturbation theory. In particular, we show that the connected correlation functions of the Hartle- Hawking state decay when evaluated at large timelike separations. As a result, the Hartle-Hawking correlation functions satisfy timelike clustering, a version of cluster decomposition associated with timelike distances. We provide explicit examples in a number of theories. We also investigate the relation between our Euclidean techniques and manifestly Lorentz-signature perturbation theory. We give an analytic argument that the Hartle-Hawking state is equivalent to the vacuum state defined by in-in perturbation theory in the Poincare patch of de Sitter. We support this argument via direct calculation in simple examples. Throughout our analysis, we are careful to properly treat the ultraviolet divergences that arise in perturbation theory. Finally, we study a scenario recently considered by Krotov and Polyakov in which the coupling g turns on smoothly at finite time, starting from g = 0 in the far past where the state is taken to be the (free) Bunch-Davies vacuum. We find that the resulting correlation functions (which we compute explicitly in Lorentz-signature, and at the 1-loop level) approach those of the interacting Hartle-Hawking state at late times. We argue that similar results should hold for other physically-motivated choices of initial conditions. This result indicates that physically motivated initial conditions result in states that are well-described by excitations of the Hartle-Hawking state and thus stable in the infrared. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
UNIFICATION AND PHYSICS BEYOND THE STANDARD MODEL ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
A monodromy graph approach to the piecewise polynomiality of mixed double Hurwitz numbers ENDTITLE A monodromy graph approach to the piecewise polynomiality of mixed double Hurwitz numbers ENDTITLES Hurwitz numbers count genus $g$, degree $d$ covers of the complex projective line with fixed branched locus and fixed ramification data. An equivalent description is given by factorisations in the symmetric group. Double Hurwitz numbers are a class of Hurwitz-type counts of specific interest. In recent years a related counting problem in the context of random matrix theory was introduced as so-called monotone Hurwitz numbers. These can be viewed as a desymmetrised version of the Hurwitz-problem. A combinatorial interpolation between classical and monotone double Hurwitz numbers was introduced as mixed double Hurwitz numbers and it was proved that these objects are piecewise polynomial in a certain sense. The aim of this paper is twofold: Using a connection between mixed double Hurwitz numbers and tropical covers in terms of so-called monodromy graphs, we give algorithms to compute the polynomials for mixed Hurwitz numbers in all genera using Erhart theory. We further use this approach to study the wall-crossing behaviour of mixed Hurwitz numbers in genus $0$ in terms of related Hurwitz-type counts. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Cosmological Constant and the Vacuum Stability in the Standard Model ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
THE DIPHOTON AND DIBOSON EXCESSES IN A LEFT-RIGHT SYMMETRIC THEORY OF DARK MATTER ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Performance studies for the electromagnetic calorimeter of the Mu2e experiment at Fermilab ENDTITLES The Mu2e experiment at Fermilab will search for the charged lepton flavor violating (CLFV) process of muon conversion in an aluminum nucleus field, $\mu$ + N (Z, A) $\to$ e + N (Z, A). No CLFV interactions have been observed experimentally yet. In the Standard Model, even considering diagrams with neutrinos oscillation, the expected rate is negligible (BR $\sim$ 10$^{−54}$), so that, observation of these processes should be crucial evidence of New Physics beyond the Standard Model. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Supersymmetry searches with the ATLAS and CMS detectors ENDTITLES The results of the searches for the production of supersymmetric particles with the data of the ATLAS and CMS detectors are reported, which use up to ∼ 18 fb−1 of pp collision data delivered by the CERN LHC during 2015 and 2016. Several final states have been explored and about forty different results have been made public by the two collaborations. No convincing excess above the Standard Model expectations has been observed and upper limits have been set on the production of gluinos, light squarks, stops and charginos/neutralinos reaching masses of 1.9 TeV, 1.4 TeV, 0.9 TeV and 1.0 TeV respectively, depending on the assumption on the decay ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Determination of the analysing power for the vec(p)p -> ppeta reaction using WASA-at-COSY detector ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Chocs dans les champs qui dérivent d'un principe variationnel : équation de Hamilton-Jacobi pour la fonction génératrice ENDTITLES (Translated from the French abstract): The shock is determined by a function S of its velocity and the field on one side of the surface of discontinuity. This function S is a solution of a Hamilton-Jacobi equation. Original French abstract: Le choc est déterminé par une fonction S de sa vitesse et du champ d'une côté de la surface de discontinuité. Cette fontion S est solution d'une équation de Hamilton-Jacobi. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Electroproduction of Charged Pions from C12 Leading to Discrete Final Nuclear States ENDTITLE Electroproduction of Charged Pions fromC12Leading to Discrete Final Nuclear States ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Thermo-electric transport in gauge/gravity models ENDTITLE Thermo-electric transport in gauge/gravity models ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Technology developments and first measurements of Low Gain Avalanche Detectors (LGAD) for high energy physics applications ENDTITLE Technology developments and first measurements of Low Gain Avalanche Detectors (LGAD) for high energy physics applications ENDTITLES This paper introduces a new concept of silicon radiation detector with intrinsic multiplication of the charge, called Low Gain Avalanche Detector (LGAD). These new devices are based on the standard Avalanche Photo Diodes (APD) normally used for optical and X-ray detection applications. The main differences to standard APD detectors are the low gain requested to detect high energy charged particles, and the possibility to have fine segmentation pitches: this allows fabrication of microstrip or pixel devices which do not suffer from the limitations normally found [1] in avalanche detectors. In addition, a moderate multiplication value will allow the fabrication of thinner devices with the same output signal of standard thick substrates. The investigation of these detectors provides important indications on the ability of such modified electrode geometry to control and optimize the charge multiplication effect, in order to fully recover the collection efficiency of heavily irradiated silicon detectors, at reasonable bias voltage, compatible with the voltage feed limitation of the CERN High Luminosity Large Hadron Collider (HL-LHC) experiments [2]. For instance, the inner most pixel detector layers of the ATLAS tracker will be exposed to fluences up to 2×1016 1 MeV neq/cm2, while for the inner strip detector region fluences of 1×1015 neq/cm2 are expected. The gain implemented in the non-irradiated devices must retain some effect also after irradiation, with a higher multiplication factor with respect to standard structures, in order to be used in harsh environments such those expected at collider experiments. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Phenomenological applications of eta and eta' mesons ENDTITLES A suitable abstract can be obtained from pages 175 to 177 (Conclusions). From 'In this thesis' to 'dispersion relations' in page 175 and from 'In the second part of the thesis' to 'Padé approximants' in page 176. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Communication Architecture of a system to find persons inside ATLAS ENDTITLE Communication Architecture of a system to find persons inside ATLAS ENDTITLES ATLAS is a high energy particle detector of unprecedented size and complexity that is under construction at CERN, in the Geneva area. The detector is housed in a cavern of about 50000 m3 at 100 m under ground. During the maintenance periods it is expected that up to 150 people could be present in the cavern at the same time, most of them working inside the intricacies of the detector and completely hidden and invisible from outside. In case of emergency, especially if smoke or fog (leaks of cryogenic fluids) are present, it could be extremely difficult and dangerously long for a rescue team to locate every person who could be in danger. Under these circumstances, a granular system for finding persons is then mandatory. FPIAA (Finding Persons Inside ATLAS Areas) is based on a large number (at the present about 400) of Passive InfraRed sensors, each one detecting the presence of a person in a relatively small volume and distributed to cover the most critical locations in the cavern. The information is collected by a computer system and is sent to the Control Room where the operator can follow on a synoptic screen the movements of the persons in the cavern and inside ATLAS. This paper presents the communication architecture that was used for this project. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Numerical solutions and new classes of R-matrices ENDTITLE Numerical solutions and new classes of R-matrices ENDTITLES In this paper we describe several methods of constructing R-matrices that are dependent upon many parameters, for example unitary R-matrices and R- matrices whose entries are functions. This provides a new way to Baxterise some classes of set-theoretic solutions of the Yang-Baxter equation. We also translate some results related to the second Yang-Baxter cohomology group, dynamical cocycle sets and set-theoretic solutions of the Yang-Baxter equation into the matrix theory language. As an application, we construct examples of R-matrices with prescribed singular values. Our R-matrices are sparse, and can be used as test matrices. We also investigate some linear algebra questions related to R-matrices. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Analysis of the ATLAS Rome Production Experience on the LHC Computing Grid ENDTITLE Analysis of the ATLAS Rome Production Experience on the LHC Computing Grid ENDTITLES The Large Hadron Collider at CERN will start data acquisition in 2007. The ATLAS (A Toroidal LHC Apparatus) experiment is preparing for the data handling and analysis via a series of Data Challenges and production exercises to validate its computing model and to provide useful samples of data for detector and physics studies. The last Data Challenge, begun in June 2004 and ended in early 2005, was the first performed completely in a Grid environment. Immediately afterwards, a new production activity was necessary in order to provide the event samples for the ATLAS physics workshop, taking place in June 2005 in Rome. This exercise offered a unique opportunity to estimate the reached improvements and to continue the validation of the computing model. In this paper we discuss the experience of the "Rome production" on the LHC Computing Grid infrastructure, describing the achievements, the improvements with respect to the previous Data Challenge and the problems observed, together with the lessons learned and future plans ENDABSTRACTS CORE
New and Topologically Massive Gravity, from the Outside In ENDTITLES This thesis examines the asymptotically anti-de Sitter solutions of higher-derivative gravity in 2+1 dimensions, using a Fefferman-Graham-like approach that expands solutions from the boundary (at infinity) into the interior. First, solutions of topologically massive gravity (TMG) are analyzed for values of the mass parameter in the range mu ≥ 1. The traditional Fefferman-Graham expansion fails to capture the dynamics of TMG, and new terms in the asymptotic expansion are needed to include the massive graviton modes. The linearized modes of Carlip, Deser, Waldron and Wise map onto the non-Einstein solutions for all μ, with nonlinear corrections appearing at higher order in the expansion. A similar result is found for new massive gravity (NMG), where the asymptotic behavior of massive gravitons is found to depend on the coupling parameter m2. Additionally, new boundary conditions are discovered for a range of values -1 < 2m2 l2 < 1 at which non-Einstein modes decay more slowly than the rate required for Brown-Henneaux boundary conditions. The holographically renormalized stress tensor is computed for these modes, and the relevant counterterms are identified up to unphysical ambiguities. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Estudio de la estructura de la parte bosónica de la supergravedad en D=11 ENDTITLES The aim of this degree project is based on the study of supergravity in D= 11. We analize the possible connexion of supergravity with a Chern-Simons theory based on the group Osp (1/32). To this end, we will only consider the bosonic case (i.e. we will take the gravitino field equal to zero) and we will build a CS theory modified with a field given by a 3-form A. After completing this procedure we will compare the field equations of both models and observe that our CS theory reproduce the equations of supergravity in D= 11 for some selection of the parameters. Then, the role of the auxiliary field is played by the gauge fields of certain Osp (1/32) generators, that would provide evidence supporting the existence of a relation between supergravity in D= 11 with a CS theory. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Conformal Symmetry in Classical Gravity ENDTITLES Since quantizing general relativity remains as intractable a problem as ever, many researchers now look to alternative theories of gravity. Invariance under conformal transformations of the metric is a strong and possibly natural constraint on such theories, although it is not satisfied by general relativity itself. After reviewing the meaning and consequences of conformal invariance in curved spacetime, two ways of formulating a 4-dimensional conformal gravity theory are discussed and critically examined. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Vacuum ultra-violet and ultra-violet scintillation light detection by means of silicon photomultipliers at cryogenic temperature ENDTITLE Vacuum ultra-violet and ultra-violet scintillation light detection by means of silicon photomultipliers at cryogenic temperature ENDTITLES We tested the performance of two types of silicon photomultipliers, AdvanSiD ASD-NUV-SiPM3S-P and Hamamatsu 3×3 MM-50 UM VUV2, both at room (300 K) and at liquid nitrogen (77 K) temperature: breakdown voltage, quenching resistance, signal shape, gain and dark counts rate have been studied as function of temperature. The response of the devices to ultra-violet light is also studied. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Galactic deuteron spectrum measured in PAMELA experiment ENDTITLE Galactic deuteron spectrum measured in PAMELA experiment ENDTITLES Results of galactic deuteron spectrum measurement by means of PAMELA apparatus are described. PAMELA is an international experiment developed for antimatter search and measurement of p,He, electron and positron spectra in wide energy range. In addition, PAMELA allows to identify and measure deuteron spectrum at low energies. In this paper deuteron-to-proton ratio and deuteron spectrum are presented. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
A search algorithm for finding Cosmic-Ray anisotropy with the PAMELA calorimeter ENDTITLE A search algorithm for finding Cosmic-Ray anisotropy with the PAMELA calorimeter ENDTITLES The PAMELA project is the satellite experiment for measurements of the cosmic ray energy spectra in a wide energy range in near-Earth space. The PAMELA apparatus is in orbit from 2006 till today. The calorimeter is the main part of the instrument. It is able to measure energy, to distinguish between hadrons and electrons and to reconstruct the arriving particle direction. Using of special triggers for the calorimeter allows significant increasing of statistics. In consideration of these facts the technique of anisotropy searching in the energy range extending higher than 10 GeV has been developed. This technique is based on the calorimeter data and has as content the advanced method of the reconstruction of the secondary particle shower axis in the calorimeter. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
New optics for resolution improving of Ring Imaging Cherenkov detectors ENDTITLE New optics for resolution improving of Ring Imaging Cherenkov detectors ENDTITLES The Ring Imaging Cherenkov detector (RICH) of the COMPASS experiment at CERN is key tool for particle identification. Two reflecting spherical mirror surfaces, covering a total area of about 21 m2 hosted in the radiator vessel, provide Cherenkov radiation focusing to photon detectors. These ones are based on the use of multi-anode photo-multiplier tubes. They are coupled to individual lens telescopes, made from special fused silica aspherical lenses. Design, construction, and Hartmann test of lenses qualities and alignment were described. The RICH detector uses C4F10 as radiator gas. The refractive index of the radiator gas is substantial parameter. It varies with temperature, atmospheric pressure and gas purity. Its accurate knowledge is essential for the particle identification performance. A modified Jamin’s interferometer was proposed, constructed and tested to allow on-line refractive index measurement with accuracy better than 10-6 The new types of fused silica Cherenkov radiators was designed to the tests of electron multiplier detector too. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
FLUKA Monte Carlo simulations and benchmark measurements for the LHC beam loss monitors ENDTITLE FLUKA Monte Carlo simulations and benchmark measurements for the LHC beam loss monitors ENDTITLES One of the crucial elements in terms of machine protection for CERN's Large Hadron Collider (LHC) is its beam loss monitoring (BLM) system. On-line loss measurements must prevent the superconducting magnets from quenching and protect the machine components from damages due to unforeseen critical beam losses. In order to ensure the BLM's design quality, in the final design phase of the LHC detailed FLUKA Monte Carlo simulations were performed for the betatron collimation insertion. In addition, benchmark measurements were carried out with LHC type BLMs installed at the CERN-EU high-energy Reference Field facility (CERF). This paper presents results of FLUKA calculations performed for BLMs installed in the collimation region, compares the results of the CERF measurement with FLUKA simulations and evaluates related uncertainties. This, together with the fact that the CERF source spectra at the respective BLM locations are comparable with those at the LHC, allows assessing the sensitivity of the performed LHC design studies. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Conformal Evolution of Waves in the Yang-Mills Condensate: The Quasi-Classical Approach ENDTITLES We have constructed a consistent system of equations for the Yang-Mills quantum-wave fluctuations in the classical Yang-Mills condensate based on canonical quantization in the Heisenberg representation. Such a quasi-classical system has been thoroughly analyzed in the conformal limit in the linear and quasi-linear approximations, both analytically and numerically. We have found that interaction between waves and condensate triggers a significant transfer or swap of energy from the condensate to the wave modes in the SU (2) gauge theory. Remarkably, a similar energy swap effect has been found in the maximally-supersymmetric  = 4 Yang-Mills theory, as well as in the two-condensate SU (4) gauge theory. Such a generic feature of Yang-Mills dynamics opens up vast phenomenological implications in ultra-relativistic Yang-Mills plasma physics. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Topological phase transition in a molecular Hamiltonian with symmetry and pseudo-symmetry, studied through quantum, semi-quantum and classical models ENDTITLE Topological phase transition in a molecular Hamiltonian with symmetry and pseudo-symmetry, studied through quantum, semi-quantum and classical models ENDTITLES The redistribution of energy levels between energy bands is studied for a family of simple effective Hamiltonians depending on one control parameter and possessing axial symmetry and energy-reflection symmetry. Further study is made on the topological phase transition in the corresponding semi-quantum and completely classical models, and finally the image of the energy-momentum map for the classical model is quantized in a semi-classical treatment. Through these comparative analyses, mutual correspondence is demonstrated to exist among the redistribution of energy levels between energy bands for the quantum Hamiltonian, the modification of Chern numbers of eigenline bundles for the corresponding semi-quantum Hamiltonian, and the presence of Hamiltonian monodromy for the complete classical analog. In particular, as far as the band rearrangement is concerned, a fine agreement is found between the redistribution of the energy levels described in terms of joint spectrum of energy and momentum in the full quantum model and the lattice-quantized image of the energy-momentum map of the complete classical model. The topological phase transition observed in the present semi-quantum and the complete classical models are analogous to topological phase transitions of matter. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Integrable model for density-modulated quantum condensates: Solitons passing through a soliton lattice ENDTITLE An integrable model for density-modulated quantum condensates: solitons passing through a soliton lattice ENDTITLE Integrable model for density-modulated quantum condensates: Solitons passing through a soliton lattice ENDTITLES An integrable model possessing inhomogeneous ground states is proposed as an effective model of non-uniform quantum condensates such as supersolids and Fulde--Ferrell--Larkin--Ovchinnikov superfluids. The model is a higher-order analog of the nonlinear Schr\"odinger equation. We derive an $n$-soliton solution via the inverse scattering theory with elliptic-functional background, and reveal various kinds of soliton dynamics such as dark soliton billiards, dislocations, gray solitons, and envelope solitons. We also provide the exact bosonic and fermionic quasiparticle eigenstates and clarify their tunneling phenomena. The solutions are expressed by a determinant of theta functions. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Hadronic Atoms ENDTITLE Hadronic Atoms ENDTITLES The title of this talk is Hadronic Atoms. Any negatively charged leptons or hadrons, other than the conventional electrons can be bound in the Coulomb field of an atomic nucleus. These atomic systems created from negatively charged particles from high energy accelerators have been named the Exotic Atoms which are essentially hydrogen-like atoms except for their unusually large energy scales, drastically reduced orbital radii and their transient existence, hence the adjective: Exotic. At present, five different types of exotic atoms have been observed by capturing of the slowed negative muons (µ−), pions (π−), kaons (k−), sigma hyperons (∑−) and anti-protons ($\bar{p}$) into atomic orbits (see Table I). The $\mu^-$ is a lepton which interacts rather weakly through electromagnetic and weak interactions with the nucleus. The muon in a muonic atom is able to reach the lowest orbit (the 1S orbit) and spent a considerable fraction of its life (2.6 µ sec) inside the nucleus. On the other hand, the π−, k−, ∑−, and $\bar{p}$ are hadrons which interact strongly with the nucleus. They are generally captured by the nucleus before ever reaching the lower orbits. To single out the exotic atoms formed by the hadrons (the strongly interacting particles), we call them the Hadronic Atoms. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
An Optical Rotation Experiment to Search for Neutral Current Effects in Atomic Bismuth ENDTITLE An Optical Rotation Experiment to Search for Neutral Current Effects in Atomic Bismuth ENDTITLES We discuss here the current status of an experiment1,2 at the University of Washington in which we are searching for a small parity non-conserving (PNC) effect in atoms. As first pointed out by Bouchiat and Bouchiat3, effects of measurable size are expected in heavy atoms if the neutral weak current interaction4–6 between electrons and nucleons has a PNC component. In our experiment, the effect of interest is an optical rotation associated with the 8755Å magnetic-dipole absorption line in atomic bismuth vapor. Similar experiments have been proposed by Sandars7 and Khriplovich8, and one using the 6476Å line in Bi is underway and is being reported at this conference. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Search for Parity Non-Conserving Optical Rotation in Atomic Bismuth ENDTITLE Search for Parity Non-Conserving Optical Rotation in Atomic Bismuth ENDTITLES Bouchiat and Bouchiat pointed out1 soon after the discovery of weak neutral currents2 that their existence might lead to parity non-conserving (PNC) effects of observable magnitude in atoms. One of the most promising possibilities3 is to look for optical rotation close to an allowed M1 absorption line in a heavy element. We report here preliminary results from our experiment4 on the 648 nm J = 3/2 J = 5/2 transition in bismuth. We find that the optical rotation, if it exists, must be somewhat smaller than had been expected. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Detection of π-µ Coulomb Bound States ENDTITLE Detection of π-µ Coulomb Bound States ENDTITLES We have observed atoms consisting of a pion and a muon produced in the decay kOL→(πμ)ATOMνkLO→(πμ)ATOMν. This represents the first observations of an atom composed of two unstable particles and of an atomic decay of an elementary particle. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
The Electric and Magnetic Dipole Moments of the Neutron ENDTITLE The Electric and Magnetic Dipole Moments of the Neutron ENDTITLES In 1950 Purcell and Ramsey1 pointed out that the parity arguments then used to prove that particles and nuclei could not have electric dipole moments, must be based on an experimental rather than a theoretical basis. As a test of this assumption, Smith, Purcell and Ramsey2 used a neutron beam magnetic resonance apparatus to search for a neutron electric dipole moment and concluded that such a moment divided by the proton charge (µe/e) was experimentally less than 5 x 10−20 cm. Later, from the work of Lee and Yang3 and Wu, et al,4 it became apparent that the parity assumption was indeed invalid, but Landau5 and others pointed out that the parity argument against an electric dipole moment could be replaced by one based on time reversal invariance. However, Ramsey6 emphasized that time reversal invariance like parity at an earlier time, was merely assumed and must rest on an experimental basis. In 1964 Christenson, Cronin, Fitch, and Turlay7 discovered the CP violating mode in the decay of the KO L meson into two charged pions, which strongly suggested a violation of time reversal symmetry. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Precision Higgs Physics, Effective Field Theory, and Dark Matter ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
The crystal acceleration effect for cold neutrons ENDTITLE The crystal acceleration effect for cold neutrons ENDTITLES A new mechanism of neutron acceleration is discussed and studied experimentally in detail for cold neutrons passing through the accelerated perfect crystal with the energies close to the Bragg one. The effect arises due to the following reason. The crystal refraction index (neutron-crystal interaction potential) for neutron in the vicinity of the Bragg resonance sharply depends on the parameter of deviation from the exact Bragg condition, i.e. on the crystal-neutron relative velocity. Therefore the neutrons enter into accelerated crystal with one neutron-crystal interaction potential and exit with the other. Neutron kinetic energy cannot vary inside the crystal due to its homogeneity. So after passage through such a crystal neutrons will be accelerated or decelerated because of the different energy change at the entrance and exit crystal boundaries. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Lattice investigations of the QCD phase diagram ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
The Class of Jsolated stars ENDTITLES We suggest that stars whose angular momentum (J) does not increase by a companion, star or planet, along their post-main sequence evolution have much lower mass loss rates along their giant branches. Their classification to a separate group can bring insight on their late evolution stages. We term these J isolated stars, or Jsolated stars. We argue that the mass loss rate of Jsolated stars is poorly determined because the mass loss rate expressions on the giant branches are empirically based mainly on stars that experience strong binary interaction, with stellar or sub-stellar companions, e.g., planetary nebula (PN) progenitors. We postulate that the average mass loss rate of Jsolated stars during their giant phases is much lower than of non-Jsolated stars. We explore some aspects of this assumption and find that such stars with an initial mass Mi~1-2Mo reach higher luminosities and radii on the upper asymptotic giant branch (AGB), and hence are more likely to swallow brown dwarfs and planets during the AGB than traditional calculations predict. This might lead to the formation of elliptical PNe and account for bright PNe in old stellar populations. We also find that under our assumption the Sun, a Jsolated star, will most likely swallow the Earth during the AGB phase. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Physical tool for Unprotected Loss Of Flow transient simulations in a Sodium Fast Reactor ENDTITLE Physical tool for Unprotected Loss Of Flow transient simulations in a Sodium Fast Reactor ENDTITLES Within the framework of the Generation IV Sodium-cooled Fast Reactor (SFR) R&D program of CEA (French Commissariat à l’Energie Atomique et aux Energies Alternatives), reactor behavior in case of severe accidents is assessed. Such accidents are usually simulated with mechanistic calculation tools (such as SAS and SIMMER). As a complement to these codes, which give reference accidental transient, a new physico-statistical approach is currently followed by CEA; its final objective being to derive the variability of the main results of interest for the safety. This approach involves a fast-running description of extended accident sequences coupling physical models for the main phenomena with advanced statistical analysis techniques. It enables to perform a large number of simulations in a reasonable computational time and to describe all the possible bifurcations of the accident transient. In this context, this paper presents a physical tool (models and results assessment) dedicated to the beginning of the primary phase of an Unprotected Loss Of Flow accident (i.e. before the first pin degradation). This study focuses on the sodium thermalhydraulic behavior during this phase, because according to some previous boiling tests, a stabilized boiling flow could be achieved at the top of some subassemblies, thus preventing pins complete dry-out and consequent core degradation. Experiments that demonstrated this possible boiling stabilization were carried out at constant power. However, in case of an unprotected accident, power will vary according to reactivity feed-back effects. This physical tool is described before presenting the comparison of its results with experimental tests results (static and dynamic aspects) for the thermalhydraulic behavior and with mechanistic SIMMER code results for the global core evolution (including neutronics) during an ULOF transient. Moreover, the flow evolutions obtained with this tool are demonstrated to be in good agreement with the Ledinegg’s quasistatic theory regarding boiling stabilization possibilities or flow excursion. This tool is demonstrated to be capable of reproducing the magnitude of mass-flow rate, reactivity, power evolution during an ULOF with a discrepancy of less than 3% regarding the same transient simulated with SIMMER. It will be used for safety-informed design and stability analyses of fast reactor systems, allowing to emphasize main dominant phenomena and significant trends for safety assessment. In the future, this physical tool, associated to statistical treatments of the effect of uncertainties, will enable large sensitivity analysis studies. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Axial-Vector Mesons and the Problem of π a1 Mixing ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
High Energy Neutrino Analysis at KamLAND and Application to Dark Matter Search ENDTITLES There are currently two active detector technologies for neutrino detection, namely Cherenkov and scintillator detectors. In the past, scintillator detectors have traditionally been used much like calorimeters to analyze neutrinos at lower energies of $\sim$MeV, whereas neutrino directionality and flavor discrimination at higher energy scales have been greatly pursued by Cherenkov detectors. In this work, we will introduce a novel analysis technique to resolve the directionality of $\sim$GeV scale neutrinos in scintillator with data taken at the Kamioka Liquid Scintillator Antineutrino Detector (KamLAND), the world’s largest scintillator neutrino detector located in Kamioka, Japan. Studies suggest that the directional resolution using this new method may be better than that of the Cherenkov method by $\sim 10^{\circ}$ in this energy regime. We will also explore track reconstruction and flavor discrimination techniques that were initially developed for R&D in the Low Energy Neutrino Astronomy (LENA) detector, and apply these techniques for the first time using real data. Finally we will employ the methods introduced to conduct an indirect dark matter search by looking for neutrino signals originating from dark matter annihilation in the Sun and Earth. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Aspects of Black Hole Physics ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Amplification of electromagnetic and gravitational waves scattered by a rotating "black hole" ENDTITLES The amplification coefficient of electromagnetic and gravitational waves scattered by a rotating "black hole" whose gravitational field can be described by the Kerr metric is calculated. The condition of existence of the amplification effect is independent of the wave-field spin. The maximal magnitude of the effect rapidly increases with increase of the spin and is considerable for gravitational waves with a small multipolarity if the angular momentum of the "black hole" is close to the maximal value. The amplification coefficient is the same for all modes and this implies that the Kerr metric is stable with respect to generation of electromagnetic and gravitational waves. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Aspects of Black Hole Physics: Scalar Sources, Holography and Gravitational Wave Emission ENDTITLES We investigate several aspects of black hole physics. First, we consider models of gravity minimally coupled to scalar fields. We derive a new class of asymptotically flat black holes sourced by a non-trivial asymptotically massless scalar field; we discuss their relationship with known solutions and standard no-hair theorems and their thermodynamics. We derive exact neutral and charged brane solutions sourced by a scalar field with vanishing potential, which are conformal to the Lifšic spacetime; we discuss the symmetries and their holographic application for hyperscaling violation; we also give a quite general classification of brane solutions sourced by scalar fields useful for holographic applications. We study an inflationary model inspired by the domain wall/cosmology correspondence in which inflation is driven by a scalar with a two-exponential potential; we derive its phenomenological consequences in the slow-roll ap- proximation and compare its predictions with the Planck 2015 data. Second, we investigate ultra-compact astrophysical objects which can act as black hole mimickers, in particular boson stars and wormholes. We discuss the existence and the stability of boson stars in higher dimen- sions and boson stars built with multiple scalars. We compute tidal Love numbers for vari- ous mimickers and discuss how to distinguish black holes from their possible mimickers with gravitational-wave data. We study the gravitational radiation emitted by a particle falling into an exotic compact object and show that the initial ringdown signal cannot be use distinguish between a black hole and a black hole mimicker. ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Dispersion relations for hyperbolic heat equations ENDTITLE Dispersion relations for hyperbolic heat equations ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
CP violation: Another piece of the puzzle ENDTITLE CP violation: Another piece of the puzzle ENDTITLES A study of $\Lambda_b$ baryon decays has provided the first direct experimental evidence that spinning matter and antimatter differ. This result may help us understand the puzzling matter-antimatter imbalance in the Universe. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Rotational properties of 23 SB galaxies ENDTITLE Rotational properties of 23 SB galaxies ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Non-equilibrium aspects of the holographic duality ENDTITLES This thesis is devoted to study far-from-equilibrium aspects of quantum systems at strong coupling using the holographic duality as a tool. The duality, which relates certain strongly coupled gauge theories to classical gravity theories living in higher dimensions, has proved itself useful as a calculational tool to map difficult questions of interest in the gauge theory into a dual (i.e., equivalent) problem in gravity language where the solution may become feasible. Of particular interest here are the problems of thermalization of strongly coupled plasmas as well as the quench dynamics of quantum systems, both of which admit a dual gravitational description involving time-dependent solutions to the corresponding classical equations of motion in the bulk of Anti de Sitter (AdS) spacetimes, such as collapsing solutions describing AdS black hole formation. Specifically, and always from a holographic point of view, in this thesis we deal with three classes of problems: the thermalization properties of a charged non-Abelian plasma after a sudden injection of energy (such as a heavy ion collision); the dynamics of a symmetry breaking quench process from a relativistic to a non-relativistic setup of the Lifshitz type with dynamical exponent z; and, finally, a new analytical approach to the non-equilibrium properties of quantum field theory plasmas placed in an expanding background. Apart from the specific problems, we also provide a self-contained but concise introduction to the holographic duality with a view towards newcomers with an elementary general relativity and quantum field theory background. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
CERN: is the price right? ENDTITLE CERN: is the price right? ENDTITLES CERN, the European laboratory for particle physics, has been in the news again over the past few months for two quite different reasons. Just after Christmas, it was announced that antihydrogen – an antiatom made from a positron and an antiproton – had been discovered in an experiment at the laboratory in Geneva (Physics World February p5). At about the same time rather more familiar stories appeared about the problems caused to the UK science budget by yet another rise in the sterling cost of the CERN subscription. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
First realization of a tracking detector for high energy physics experiments based on Josephson digital readout circuitry ENDTITLE First realization of a tracking detector for high energy physics experiments based on Josephson digital readout circuitry ENDTITLES We have designed and realized a prototype of a high energy particle microstrip detector with Josephson readout circuits. The key features of this device are: minimum ionizing particle sensitivity, due to the use of semiconductive sensors, fast speed and radiation hardness, due to the use of superconductive circuitry, and current discrimination, which allows the use of several types of semiconductors as detector (Si, GaAs, CVD-diamond) without loss in performances. The Josephson circuitry, made by a combination of RSFQ and latching logic gates, realizes an 8-bit current discriminator and parallel to serial converter and can be directly interfaced to room temperature electronics. This device, which is designed for application as vertex detector for the Compass and LHC-B accelerator experiments, has been tested with small radioactive sources acid will undergo to a test beam at the CERN SPS facility with 24 GeV/c protons. Current results and future perspectives will be reported. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Radioactive ion beams at FAIR-NuSTAR: Challenges and advantages of high-energy exotic beams ENDTITLE Radioactive ion beams at FAIR-NuSTAR ENDTITLES The future FAIR facility will open up an unprecedented range of exotic nuclear beams in the energy interval between 0–1.5 GeV/u produced by the Super-FRS. The envisaged experimental programme with radioactive beams, being prepared within the NuSTAR collaboration, will cover most aspects of contemporary physics within nuclear structure, astrophysics and reactions. An overview of this programme is given, with emphasis on high-energy reactions. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Neutrinos ENDTITLE Neutrinos ENDTITLES Neutrinos represent a new “window” to the Universe, spanning a large range of energy. We discuss the science of neutrino astrophysics and focus on two energy regimes. At “lower” energies (≈1 MeV), studies of neutrinos born inside the sun, or produced in interactions of cosmic rays with the atmosphere, have allowed the first incontrovertible evidence that neutrinos have mass. At energies typically one thousand to one million times higher, sources further than the sun (both within the Milky Way and beyond) are expected to produce a flux of particles that can be detected only through neutrinos. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
The AM++ Board for the Silicon Vertex Tracker Upgrade at CDF ENDTITLE The AM++ Board for the Silicon Vertex Tracker Upgrade at CDF ENDTITLES The main effort of the silicon vertex tracker upgrade is the production of a new associative memory (AM), ~40 times larger than the existing one. The associative memory is the SVT part dedicated to the pattern recognition specific task. We have designed a new associative memory board (AM++) to handle 128 standard cell associative memory chips. We describe the design, the tests and the performances of the new AM++ for CDF ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Self-diagnostic tools of the APEmille parallel machine ENDTITLE Self-diagnostic tools of the APEmille parallel machine ENDTITLES The authors describe the self-diagnostic tools of the APEmille SIMD machine, whose logical architecture is a three-dimensional torus of processors. The tools are aimed at implementing system-level diagnosis using a comparison model. The diagnostic model accounts for some critical features of the APEmille architecture, and has been validated by means of VHDL simulation. Essentially, diagnostic tools force all processors to synchronously execute the same test program using the same data set, and compare the outputs of adjacent processors in real time. The diagnostic tools also implement a preliminary test session aimed at covering faults that might disrupt the comparison model. The diagnosis algorithm and the test programs used in comparison tests are also described. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
QPACE: Quantum Chromodynamics Parallel Computing on the Cell Broadband Engine ENDTITLE QPACE: Quantum Chromodynamics Parallel Computing on the Cell Broadband Engine ENDTITLES Abstract: Application-driven computers for lattice gauge theory simulations have often been based on system-on-chip designs, but the development costs can be prohibitive for academic project budgets. An alternative approach uses compute nodes based on a commercial processor tightly coupled to a custom-designed network processor. Preliminary analysis shows that this solution offers good performance, but it also entails several challenges, including those arising from the processor's multicore structure and from implementing the network processor on a field-programmable gate array. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
APEmille ENDTITLE APEmille ENDTITLES This paper describes the APEmille project, jointly carried out by INFN and DESY. It mainly focuses on the architectural features of this massively parallel compute engine that matches the computational requirements of LGT. In the paper I briefly cover the story of the APE projects, discuss the requirements of any efficient LGT engine and finally describe the APEmille machine. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Strategies for dedicated computing for lattice gauge theories ENDTITLE Strategies for dedicated computing for lattice gauge theories ENDTITLES This paper reviews the unusual computational requirements associated to numerical simulations of Lattice Gauge Theories (LGT), and describes the computer-architectural features that best match these requirements. The paper then briefly describes, in a comparative mode, two recent LGT-dedicated computer systems. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
On-line tracking processors at hadron colliders: The SVT experience at CDF II and beyond ENDTITLE On-line tracking processors at hadron colliders: The SVT experience at CDF II and beyond ENDTITLES The Silicon Vertex Trigger (SVT) provides the CDF experiment with a powerful tool for fast and precise track finding and fitting at trigger level. The system enhances the experiment's reach on B-physics and large PT-physics coupled to b quarks. We review the main design features and the performance of the SVT with particular attention to the recent upgrade that improved its capabilities. Finally, we will focus on additional improvements of the functionality of such a system in a more general experimental context. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Computing for LQCD: apeNEXT ENDTITLE Computing for LQCD: apeNEXT ENDTITLES apeNEXT is the latest in the APE collaboration's series of parallel computers for computationally intensive calculations such as quantum chromo dynamics on the lattice. The authors describe the computer architectural choices that have been shaped by almost two decades of collaboration activity. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
apeNEXT: A Multi-TFlops computer for elementary particle physics ENDTITLE apeNEXT: A Multi-TFlops computer for elementary particle physics ENDTITLES This chapter discusses the apeNEXl project, which is currently developing a massively parallel computer with a multi-TFlops performance. Like previous APE machines, the new supercomputer is completely custom designed and is specifically optimized for simulating the theory of strong interactions, quantum chromodynamics (QCD). The performance for key application kernels is assessed and a comparison is made with other machines used for these kinds of simulations. A functional model of the machine design has been used for benchmarking the architecture. The chapter presents a detailed discussion of the results and showed that the actual design goals of the project have been reached. Benchmark programs indicate that it will be possible to run key lattice gauge theory kernels at a sustained performance of 50% or more. While apeNEXT is designed as a special purpose machine optimized for simulating QCD. To make efficient use of these vast resources and to push towards development of future high performance computing capabilities an initiative on scientific parallel computing (SciParC) has been launched. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Thermal noise of mechanical oscillators in steady states with a heat flux ENDTITLE Thermal noise of mechanical oscillators in steady states with a heat flux ENDTITLES We present an experimental investigation of the statistical properties of the position fluctuations of low-loss oscillators in nonequilibrium steady states. The oscillators are coupled to a heat bath, and a nonequilibrium steady state is produced by flowing a constant heat flux, setting a temperature difference across the oscillators. We investigated the distribution of the measurements of the square of the oscillator position and searched for signs of changes with respect to the equilibrium case. We found that, after normalization by the mean value, the second, third, and fourth standardized statistical moments are not modified by the underlying thermodynamic state. This differs from the behavior of the absolute, i.e., not normalized, second moment, which is strongly affected by temperature gradients and heat fluxes. We illustrate this with a numerical experiment in which we study via molecular dynamics the fluctuations of the length of a one-dimensional chain of identical particles interacting via anharmonic interparticle potentials, with the extremes thermostated at different temperatures: we use the variance of the length in correspondence to its first elastic mode of resonance to define an effective temperature which we observe to depart from the thermodynamic one in the nonequilibrium states. We investigate the effect of changing the interparticle potential and show that the qualitative behavior of the nonequilibrium excess is unchanged. Our numerical results are consistent with the chain length being Gaussian distributed in the nonequilibrium states. Our experimental investigation reveals that the position variance is the only, and crucially easily accessible, observable for distinguishing equilibrium from nonequilibrium steady states. The consequences of this fact for the design of interferometric gravitational wave detectors are discussed. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Neutral Current $\pi^0$ Production Rate Measurement On-Water Using the $\pi^0$ Detector in the Near Detector of the T2K Experiment ENDTITLES The T2K Experiment is a long-baseline neutrino experiment that stretches 295 km from the east to the west coast of Japan (Tokai-Mura to Kamioka). One of the major goals of the experiment is a measurement of $\theta_{13}$ and (if $\theta_{13}$ is non-zero) potentially CP violation in the lepton sector. This is performed by searching for νe appearance in a νμ beam from the Japan Proton Accelerator Research Complex (J-PARC). The far detector, Super Kamiokande (SK), is a water Cherenkov detector. One of the dominant backgrounds for SK in the oscillation measurement is the uncertainty on the cross section of the Neutral Current Single π0 (NC1π0) interaction. In order to constrain this background, the π0 detector (P∅D) was placed in the near detector complex, 280 meters from the beam origin. The P∅D was constructed with a water target that can be filled and drained in order to perform a material subtraction to measure various cross sections on-water. This analysis presents the first on-water NC1π0 rate measurement with a neutrino beam energy less than 1 GeV. Using the NEUT Monte Carlo, a cut selection was developed in order to accentuate the difference between the signal and background shapes of the reconstructed invariant mass of the π0 particle. The selected events and a muon decay sideband, used to constrain the shape of the background events, are then simultaneously fit in order to extract an observed number of signal events. The observed data is then compared to Monte Carlo. Using T2K Runs 1-4 (total of 6.13 × 1020 protons on target), a ratio of 0.790±0.076(stat)±0.143(sys) (0.850±0.091(stat)±0.137(sys)) is found for the P∅D water-in (water-out) configuration. After calculating the subtracted number of events on-water from the water-in and water-out data, a data to NEUT Monte Carlo ratio of 0.677 ± 0.261(stat) ± 0.462(sys) is found for the rate of NC1$\pi^0$ interactions on-water. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
A COMPLEX AND TRIPLEX FRAMEWORK FOR ENCODING THE RIEMANNIAN DUAL SPACE-TIME TOPOLOGY EQUIPPED WITH ORDER PARAMETER FIELDS ENDTITLES In this work, we forge a powerful, easy-to-visualize, flexible, consistent, and disciplined abstract vector framework for particle and astro physics that is compliant with the holographic principle. We demonstrate that the structural properties of the complex number and the sphere enable us to introduce and define the triplex number —an influential information structure that is similar to the 3D hyper-complex number by D. White and P. Nylander—which identifies a 3D analogue of (2D) complex space. Consequently, we engage the complex and triplex numbers as abstract vectors to systematically encode the state space of the Riemannian dual 3D and 4D space-time topologies, where space and time are dual and interconnected; we use the triplex numbers (with triplex multiplication) to extend 1D and 2D algebraic systems to 3D and 4D configurations. In doing so, we equip space-time with order parameter fields for topological deformations. Finally, to exemplify our motivation, we provide three example applications for this framework. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
The General Theory of Relativity ENDTITLE The General Theory of Relativity ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Einstein Gravity and Beyond: Aspects of Higher-Curvature Gravity and Black Holes ENDTITLES This thesis explores the different aspects of higher curvature gravity. The "membrane paradigm" of black holes in Einstein gravity is extended to black holes in f(R) gravity and it is shown that the higher curvature effects of f( R) gravity causes the membrane fluid to become non-Newtonian. Next a modification of the null energy condition in gravity is provided. The purpose of the null energy condition is to filter out ill-behaved theories containing ghosts. Conformal transformations, which are simple redefinitions of the spacetime, introduces serious violations of the null energy condition. This violation is shown to be spurious and a prescription for obtaining a modified null energy condition, based on the universality of the second law of thermodynamics, is provided. The thermodynamic properties of the black holes are further explored using merger of extremal black holes whose horizon entropy has topological contributions coming from the higher curvature Gauss-Bonnet term. The analysis refutes the prevalent belief in the literature that the second law of black hole thermodynamics is violated in the presence of the Gauss-Bonnet term in four dimensions. Subsequently a specific class of higher derivative scalar field theories called the galileons are obtained from a Kaluza-Klein reduction of Gauss-Bonnet gravity. Galileons are null energy condition violating theories which lead to violations of the second law of thermodynamics of black holes. These higher derivative scalar field theories which are non-minimally coupled to gravity required the development of a generalized method for obtaining the equations of motion. Utilizing this generalized method, it is shown that the inclusion of the Gauss-Bonnet term made the theory of gravity to become higher derivative, which makes it difficult to make any statements about the connection between the violation of the second law of thermodynamics and the galileon fields. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Calibration of Infrared Photons in Cryogenic Germanium Detectors ENDTITLES A significant evidence from galaxies and astrophysical observations, suggests that ~ 85% of the matter in our Universe is invisible matter. The observations of the so-called “dark matter” suggest that it consists of non-relativistic, non-baryonic particles, which seldom interact with baryonic matter, or with each other. Many experiments are searching for dark matter, each of which is based on a particular dark matter candidate. Weakly Interacting Massive Particles (WIMPs) are one of the well-motivated candidates for dark matter. So far, no answers were provided by the Standard Model of particle physics to the dark matter puzzle. The Super Cryogenic Dark Matter Search experiment (SuperCDMS) is considered one of the pioneer experiments in the direct search for WIMPs. It is based primarily on deploying germanium and silicon detectors at cryogenic temperatures to search for direct WIMP-nucleus elastic scattering interaction through which lattice vibrations are generated and sensed in one of the coldest detectors ever built. The new phase of SuperCDMS experiment at SNOLAB is aiming to be sensitive to the lower WIMP mass scale. Therefore, a lower background and detector threshold energy is a necessity, and the detectors need to be calibrated and tested for the new proposed sensitivity. The tests include high bias voltages, which are required to increase the gain in signal-to-noise ratio and to allow for the detection of low energy events using the phonon signal. However, the upper limit and polarity for the bias voltage need further studies in order to understand the variation of the detector’s response to high voltage. Therefore, we performed the breakdown measurement (chapter 4) at Queen’s Test Facility. Moreover, detectors have to be calibrated before being utilized in measuring low energy interactions, and that is what lead to the use of infrared photons. Once we can calibrate and understand the behavior of infrared photons in germanium detectors, they can be utilized in calibrating germanium detectors at the lower energy scale. Therefore, we performed the infrared calibration measurement which represents the bulk of the work in my thesis. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Mesoporous materials for antihydrogen production ENDTITLE Mesoporous materials for antihydrogen production ENDTITLES Antimatter is barely known by the chemist community and this article has the vocation to explain how antimatter, in particular antihydrogen, can be obtained, as well as to show how mesoporous materials could be used as a further improvement for the production of antimatter at very low temperatures (below 1 K). The first experiments with mesoporous materials highlighted in this review show very promising and exciting results. Mesoporous materials such as mesoporous silicon, mesoporous material films, pellets of MCM-41 and silica aerogel show remarkable features for antihydrogen formation. Yet, the characteristics for the best future mesoporous materials (e.g. pore sizes, pore connectivity, shape, surface chemistry) remain to be clearly identified. For now among the best candidates are pellets of MCM-41 and aerogel with pore sizes between 10 and 30 nm, possessing hydrophobic patches on their surface to avoid ice formation at low temperature. From a fundamental standpoint, antimatter experiments could help to shed light on open issues, such as the apparent asymmetry between matter and antimatter in our universe and the gravitational behaviour of antimatter. To this purpose, basic studies on antimatter are necessary and a convenient production of antimatter is required. It is exactly where mesoporous materials could be very useful. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
ESSnuSB Project to Produce Intense Beams of Neutrinos and Muons ENDTITLES A new project for the production of a very intense neutrino beam has arisen to enable the discovery of a leptonic CP violation. This facility will use the world’s most intense pulsed spallation neutron source, the European Spallation Source (ESS) under construction in Lund. Its linac is expected to be fully operational at 5 MW power by 2023, using 2 GeV protons. In addition to the neutrinos, the ESSnuSB proposed facility will produce a copious number of muons at the same time. These muons also could be used by a future Neutrino Factory to study a possible CP violation in the leptonic sector and neutrino cross-sections. They could be used as well by a muon collider or a low energy nuSTORM. The layout of such a facility, consisting in the upgrade of the linac, the use of an accumulator ring, a target/horn system and a megaton Water Cherenkov neutrino detector, is presented. The physics potential is also described. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Relativistic hyperbolic heat equations ENDTITLE Relativistic hyperbolic heat equations ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Measurement of the Single Neutral Pion Production Cross Section in Neutral-Current Neutrino Interactions in the T2K Pi-zero Detector ENDTITLES The T2K experiment is a long baseline neutrino oscillation experiment designed for the primary goal of measuring $\nu_{\mu} \to \nu_e$ oscillation, thereby providing a measurement of the neutrino mixing angle $\theta_{13}$. To achieve this goal, a beam of muon neutrinos is produced at the Japanese Proton Accelerator Re- search Complex in Tokai, Japan and sent 295 kilometers across Japan towards the Super-Kamiokande detector. One of the major backgrounds of the νe appearance measurement is from neutral current νμ interactions where a single π0 is produced and the photons from the π0 decay mimic the νe appearance signal. To constrain the uncertainty on this background, a π0-detector has been constructed as part of the T2K near detector facility at 280 meters from the proton beam target. This dissertation presents a measurement of the neutral current single π0 (NC1π0) production cross section using 8.55×10$^{19}$ protons-on-target (POT) of T2K data. This is achieved by using pre-defined selection criteria to enhance the NC1$\pi^0$ signal events over background events in the invariant mass distribution of NC1$\pi^0$ candidate events. An extended likelihood fit is then performed on the data distribution to extract the number of signal events. We measure the ratio of the NC1π0production cross section normalized by the νμ Charged-Current Inclusive interaction to be 0.81 ± 0.15 (stat) ± 0.14 (sys). ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Experimental characterization of active plasma lensing for electron beams ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Kernel Design of a Flexible Software Framework for Magnetic Measurements at CERN ENDTITLE Kernel Design of a Flexible Software Framework for Magnetic Measurements at CERN ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Wilson loops and riemann theta functions in the gauge/gravity duality ENDTITLES One important implication of the AdS/CFT conjecture is that the expectation value of a Wilson loop operator in a conformally invariant field theory may be computed in the dual string theory by calculating the regularized area of the minimal area surface that ends on the Wilson loop in the boundary of AdS space. As a consequence, Euclidean Wilson loops correspond to minimal area surfaces in Euclidean AdS space. Many examples of Euclidean Wilson loops have been computed including the parallel lines which give the quark-antiquark energy. We approach the study of Wilson loops from the point of view of finding Riemann theta function solution to the cosh-gordon equation. We compute an infinite set of equivalent classes of simple Wilson loops. Each equivalent class consists of Wilson loops that, though having different shapes and lengths, have the same regularized area of their dual minimal area surfaces. An analytic formula for the area of their dual surfaces is derived. Furthermore new examples of Wilson loops which consist of multiple curves are calculated. For instance we compute cases of concentric Wilson loops which may be viewed as perturbed concentric circular Wilson loops. The trace of their monodromy matrix which gives information about the conserved charges is determined to be a simple function of the spectral parameter.^ ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Wilson loops and riemann theta functions in the gauge/gravity duality ENDTITLES One important implication of the AdS/CFT conjecture is that the expectation value of a Wilson loop operator in a conformally invariant field theory may be computed in the dual string theory by calculating the regularized area of the minimal area surface that ends on the Wilson loop in the boundary of AdS space. As a consequence, Euclidean Wilson loops correspond to minimal area surfaces in Euclidean AdS space. Many examples of Euclidean Wilson loops have been computed including the parallel lines which give the quark-antiquark energy. We approach the study of Wilson loops from the point of view of finding Riemann theta function solution to the cosh-gordon equation. We compute an infinite set of equivalent classes of simple Wilson loops. Each equivalent class consists of Wilson loops that, though having different shapes and lengths, have the same regularized area of their dual minimal area surfaces. An analytic formula for the area of their dual surfaces is derived. Furthermore new examples of Wilson loops which consist of multiple curves are calculated. For instance we compute cases of concentric Wilson loops which may be viewed as perturbed concentric circular Wilson loops. The trace of their monodromy matrix which gives information about the conserved charges is determined to be a simple function of the spectral parameter.^ ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Wilson loops and riemann theta functions in the gauge/gravity duality ENDTITLES One important implication of the AdS/CFT conjecture is that the expectation value of a Wilson loop operator in a conformally invariant field theory may be computed in the dual string theory by calculating the regularized area of the minimal area surface that ends on the Wilson loop in the boundary of AdS space. As a consequence, Euclidean Wilson loops correspond to minimal area surfaces in Euclidean AdS space. Many examples of Euclidean Wilson loops have been computed including the parallel lines which give the quark-antiquark energy. We approach the study of Wilson loops from the point of view of finding Riemann theta function solution to the cosh-gordon equation. We compute an infinite set of equivalent classes of simple Wilson loops. Each equivalent class consists of Wilson loops that, though having different shapes and lengths, have the same regularized area of their dual minimal area surfaces. An analytic formula for the area of their dual surfaces is derived. Furthermore new examples of Wilson loops which consist of multiple curves are calculated. For instance we compute cases of concentric Wilson loops which may be viewed as perturbed concentric circular Wilson loops. The trace of their monodromy matrix which gives information about the conserved charges is determined to be a simple function of the spectral parameter.^ ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Gravitational lens ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
NEW COSMOLOGICAL SOLUTIONS IN MASSIVE GRAVITY THEORY ENDTITLES In this paper we present some new cosmological solutions in massive gravity theory. Some homogeneous and isotropic solutions correctly describe accelerated evolutions for the universe. The study was realized considering a specific form to the fiducial metric and found different functions and constant parameters of the theory that guarantee the conservation of the energy momentum tensor. Several accelerating cosmologies were found, all of them reproducing a cosmological constant term proportional to the graviton mass, with a de Sitter type solution for the scale factor. We have also verified that when the fiducial metric is close to the physical metric the solutions are absent, except for some specific open cases. ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Study of Bianchi type-I model in f(R,Tψ) gravity ENDTITLE Study of Bianchi type-I model in f(R,Tψ) gravity ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Black Holes: A Laboratory for Testing Strong Gravity ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Optimal Mock Jacobi Theta Functions ENDTITLE Optimal Mock Jacobi Theta Functions ENDTITLES We classify the optimal mock Jacobi forms of weight one with rational coefficients. The space they span is thirty-four-dimensional, and admits a distinguished basis parameterized by genus zero groups of isometries of the hyperbolic plane. We show that their Fourier coefficients can be expressed explicitly in terms of singular moduli, and obtain positivity conditions which distinguish the optimal mock Jacobi forms that appear in umbral moonshine. We find that all of Ramanujan's mock theta functions can be expressed simply in terms of the optimal mock Jacobi forms with rational coefficients. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
On the Discrete Groups of Mathieu Moonshine ENDTITLE On the Discrete Groups of Mathieu Moonshine ENDTITLES We prove that a certain space of cusp forms for the Hecke congruence group of a given level is one-dimensional if and only if that level is the order of an element of the second largest Mathieu group. As such, our result furnishes a direct analogue of Ogg's observation that the normaliser of a Hecke congruence group of prime level has genus zero if and only if that prime divides the order of the Fischer-Griess monster group. The significance of the cusp forms under consideration is explained by the Rademacher sum construction of the McKay-Thompson series of Mathieu moonshine. Our result supports a conjectural characterisation of the discrete groups and multiplier systems arising in Mathieu moonshine. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Incompressible relativistic fluid with heat conduction ENDTITLE Incompressible relativistic fluid with heat conduction ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
The S-Matrix of the Pohlmeyer-Reduced AdS5×S5 Superstring ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Beam Phenomena at the Interaction Point ENDTITLES Two major issues of the beam-beam phenomena in lin- ear collit;lers are the deformation of the bunch (disruption) and t.he synchrotron radiation (beamstrahlung) due to the field created by the on-corning beam. In this note we shall report some results of the study on these problems with an emphasis on flat beams. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Beyond conventional factorization: non-Hermitian Hamiltonians with radial oscillator spectrum ENDTITLE Beyond conventional factorization: Non-Hermitian Hamiltonians with radial oscillator spectrum ENDTITLE Beyond conventional factorization: non-Hermitian Hamiltonians with radial oscillator spectrum ENDTITLES The eigenvalue problem of the spherically symmetric oscillator Hamiltonian is revisited in the context of canonical raising and lowering operators. The Hamiltonian is then factorized in terms of two not mutually adjoint factorizing operators which, in turn, give rise to a non-Hermitian radial Hamiltonian. The set of eigenvalues of this new Hamiltonian is exactly the same as the energy spectrum of the radial oscillator and the new square-integrable eigenfunctions are complex Darboux-deformations of the associated Laguerre polynomials. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Complex-Type Factorization and Radial Oscillators ENDTITLE Complex-Type Factorization and Radial Oscillators ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Remarks on the extreme limit of the double–Kerr solution in the equilibrium case ENDTITLE Remarks on the extreme limit of the double–Kerr solution in the equilibrium case ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Measurement of Collins asymmetries in inclusive production of pion pairs at BaBar ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Lectures on quantum field theory in curved spacetime ENDTITLES These notes provide an introduction to quantum field theory in curved space- times, starting from the beginning but leading to some areas of current research. Topics covered include: globally hyperbolic spacetimes, canonical quantization, Euclidean Green functions, the Unruh effect, gravitational particle production, algebraic quantization, the Hadamard and microlocal spectrum conditions, and quantum energy inequalities. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Noncommutative Quantum Field Theory ENDTITLES Introduction; Differential Calculus; Fuzzy Physics; QFT on formula9; Taming the Landau Ghost ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Topics in Physical Mathematics: Geometric Topology and Field Theory ENDTITLE Topics in Physical Mathematics ENDTITLES In recent years the interaction between geometic topology and classical and quantum field theories has attracted a great deal of attention from both the mathematicians and physicists. We discuss some topics from low dimensional topology where this has led to new viewpoints as well as new results. They include categorification of knot polynomials and a special case of the gauge theory to string theory correspondence in the Euclidean version of the theories, where exact results are available. We show how the Witten-Reshetikhin-Turaev invariant in SU(n) Chern-Simons theory on formula6 is related via conifold transition to the all-genus generating function of the topological string amplitudes on a Calabi-Yau manifold. This result can be thought of as an interpretation of TQFT as TQG (Topological Quantum Gravity). A brief discussion of Perelman's work on the geometrization conjecture and its relation to gravity is also included. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
On Hyperbolic Monopoles ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Ernst Equation and Riemann Surfaces: Analytical and Numerical Methods ENDTITLE Ernst Equation and Riemann Surfaces ENDTITLES Exact solutions to Einstein`s equations have been useful for the understanding of general relativity in many respects. They have led to physical concepts as black holes and event horizons and helped to visualize interesting features of the theory. In addition they have been used to test the quality of various approximation methods and numerical codes. The most powerful solution generation methods are due to the theory of Integrable Systems. In the case of axisymmetric stationary spacetimes the Einstein equations are equivalent to the completely integrable Ernst equation. In this volume the solutions to the Ernst equation associated to Riemann surfaces are studied in detail and physical and mathematical aspects of this class are discussed both analytically and numerically. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Geometry of super Yang-Mills and supergravity ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Astroparticle Physics: Theory and Phenomenology ENDTITLE Astroparticle Physics: Theory and Phenomenology ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Quasi-diagonal Inhomogeneous Closure for Classical and Quantum Statistical Dynamics ENDTITLE Quasi-diagonal Inhomogeneous Closure for Classical and Quantum Statistical Dynamics ENDTITLES The Quasi-diagonal Direct Interaction Approximation (QDIA) closure equations are formulated for inhomogeneous classical and quantum fields interacting through dynamical equations with quadratic nonlinearity and with first or second order time derivatives. Associated more complex inhomogeneous DIA and Self-Energy closure equations are expounded as part of the derivation. The QDIA employs a bare vertex approximation and is only a few times more computationally intensive than the homogeneous DIA. Examples of applications to turbulent classical geophysical and Navier Stokes fluids, including non-Gaussian noise, to classical and quantum Klein Gordon equations with g phi^3 Lagrangian interaction, and to coupled field-auxiliary field equations associated lambda phi^4 Lagrangian interaction, are presented. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
An Attempt to Observe the Absorption of Neutrinos ENDTITLE An Attempt to Observe the Absorption of Neutrinos ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
An Attempt to Detect the Neutrino ENDTITLE An Attempt to Detect the Neutrino ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
An Attempt to Detect the Neutrino ENDTITLE An Attempt to Detect the Neutrino ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Studies of hadronic decays of high transverse momentum W and Z bosons with the ATLAS detector at the LHC ENDTITLES This work is based on data recorded by the ATLAS experiment at the LHC in 2011 at a centre of mass energy of 7 TeV and in 2012 at 8 TeV. The work predominantly focusses on searches for hadronically decaying W and Z bosons in the high pT regime such that both the decay products are contained within a single jet. Firstly, a selection using jet shapes boosted back into the centre of mass frame of the jet is used to locate a W and Z boson peak above the large QCD background in 2011 data and from this a cross section is extracted. This peak is then used to study a variety of grooming techniques designed to reduce the effects of pileup and leave only the components of jet related to the hard scatter. The effect of these techniques on a sample already containing strongly signal-like jets is assessed in terms of terms of data-Monte Carlo agreement, signal to background ratio and pileup dependence. They are found to perform well to a level that will be useful in future measurements at the LHC. Secondly an analysis designed to search for heavy diboson reso- nances in the hadronic channel is described. This search is based on a optimised version of a splitting and filtering technique investigated in the W and Z boson analysis with some additional substructure cuts. The analysis is run on 2012 data and the preliminary results and limits are presented. An excess corresponding to about 3.4σ local significance is observed and this peak is currently undergoing a series of cross checks. This thesis also contains some performance studies of the ATLAS forward jet trigger in 2011 in terms of efficiency plots and work ￼done to investigate applying calibration to the jet triggers. The calibration was seen to improve the jet trigger and was subsequently used in 2012 running. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Electron impact ionization of individual sub-shells and total of L and M shells of atomic targets with Z = 38–92 ENDTITLES We report an extension and modification of the MCN model of Haque et al (2013 Rad. Phys. Chem. 91 50–9) (XMCN) to study the electron impact ionization of inner L and M shells of neutral atoms by introducing new parameters of the MCN model. The extended XMCN model, including the relativistic effect, has been applied with success to evaluate ionization cross- sections of various atomic targets with Z = 38–92 for both individual subshells and total L-shell and the corresponding cross-sections for the M shell for Z = 79–92 at incident energies E_Threshold < T < 1 GeV. A comparison with other available theoretical and experimental cross-sections reveals that our results reproduce the experimental measurements with a reasonable accuracy. ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Electron impact secondary electron emissions from elemental and compound solids ENDTITLE Electron impact secondary electron emissions from elemental and compound solids ENDTITLES The Sternglass theory [Sternglass, Phys. Rev. 108, (1957) 1] for fast-ion-induced secondary-electron emission, which is proportional to the stopping powers, from metals has been modified to calculate the electron impact secondary electron yield from both elemental and compound targets with atomic number Z = 4–92 for incident energy range 5 ≤ Ei ≤ 105eV. This modification includes the use of a realistic stopping power expression that involves calculations of the effective atomic electron number, effective mean excitation energies and realistic electron density distribution of the target atoms along with the effective charge of incident electron. Throughout the studied energy range, the predictions of our proposed theory are in reasonable agreement with the experimental data for Be to U elemental and six important compound targets. ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Quantum Riemann–Roch, Lefschetz and Serre ENDTITLE Quantum Riemann - Roch, Lefschetz and Serre ENDTITLE Quantum Riemann–Roch, Lefschetz and Serre ENDTITLES Given a holomorphic vector bundle $E:EX X$ over a compact K\"ahler manifold, one introduces twisted GW-invariants of $X$ replacing virtual fundamental cycles of moduli spaces of stable maps $f: \Sigma \to X$ by their cap-product with a chosen multiplicative characteristic class of $H^0(\Sigma, f^* E) - H^1(\Sigma, f^*E)$. Using the formalism of quantized quadratic hamiltonians, we express the descendent potential for the twisted theory in terms of that for $X$. The result (Theorem 1) is a consequence of Mumford's Riemann -- Roch -- Grothendieck formula applied to the universal stable map. When $E$ is concave, and the inverse $\CC^{\times}$-equivariant Euler class is chosen, the twisted theory yields GW-invariants of $EX$. The ``non-linear Serre duality principle'' expresses GW-invariants of $EX$ via those of the supermanifold $\Pi E^*X$, where the Euler class and $E^*$ replace the inverse Euler class and $E$. We derive from Theorem 1 the nonlinear Serre duality in a very general form (Corollary 2). When the bundle $E$ is convex, and a submanifold $Y\subset X$ is defined by a global section, the genus 0 GW-invariants of $\Pi E X$ coincide with those of $Y$. We prove a ``quantum Lefschetz hyperplane section principle'' (Theorem 2) expressing genus 0 GW-invariants of a complete intersection $Y$ via those of $X$. This extends earlier results of Y.-P. Lee and A. Gathmann and yields most of the known mirror formulas for toric complete intersections. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
R2 corrections to holographic Schwinger effect ENDTITLE R 2 corrections to holographic Schwinger effect ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Conformal and gauge symmetry in D = 2 QFT ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Проблемы физики высоких энергий и квантовой теории поля. IV. Международный семинар. Протвино 1981. Том I. Труды Международного семинара по проблемам физики высоких энергий и квантовой теории поля, Протвино, июль 1981. Том I [Problemy fiziki vysokikh ènergiĭ i kvantovoĭ teorii polya. IV. Mezhdunarodnyĭ seminar. Protvino 1981. Tom I. Trudy Mezhdunarodnogo seminara po problemam fiziki vysokikh ènergiĭ i kvantovoĭ teorii polya, Protvino, iyul' 1981. Tom I]. Proceedings of the International Seminar on High Energy Physics and Quantum Field Theory. Protvino, July 1981. Vol. 1. ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Reality of the Cylindrical Gravitational Waves of Einstein and Rosen ENDTITLE Reality of the Cylindrical Gravitational Waves of Einstein and Rosen ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Reality of the Cylindrical Gravitational Waves of Einstein and Rosen ENDTITLE Reality of the Cylindrical Gravitational Waves of Einstein and Rosen ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Reality of the Cylindrical Gravitational Waves of Einstein and Rosen ENDTITLE Reality of the Cylindrical Gravitational Waves of Einstein and Rosen ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS 
Exactly solvable Markovian dynamics of lattice quantum spin models ENDTITLE Exactly solvable Markovian dynamics of lattice quantum spin models ENDTITLES We address the real-time dynamics of lattice quantum spin models coupled to single or multiple Markovian dissipative reservoirs using the method of closed hierarchies of correlation functions. This approach allows us to solve a number of quantum spin models exactly in arbitrary dimensions, which is illustrated explicitly with two examples of driven-dissipative systems. We investigate their respective nonequilibrium steady states as well as the full real-time evolution on unprecedented system sizes. Characteristic timescales are derived analytically, which allows us to understand the nontrivial finite-size scaling of the dissipative gap. The corresponding scaling exponents are confirmed by solving numerically for the full real-time evolution of two-point correlation functions. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Enstrophy Cascade in Decaying Two-Dimensional Quantum Turbulence ENDTITLE Enstrophy Cascade in Decaying Two-Dimensional Quantum Turbulence ENDTITLES We report evidence for an enstrophy cascade in large-scale point-vortex simulations of decaying two-dimensional quantum turbulence. Devising a method to generate quantum vortex configurations with kinetic energy narrowly localized near a single length scale, the dynamics are found to be well-characterised by a superfluid Reynolds number, $\mathrm{Re_s}$, that depends only on the number of vortices and the initial kinetic energy scale. Under free evolution the vortices exhibit features of a classical enstrophy cascade, including a $k^{-3}$ power-law kinetic energy spectrum, and steady enstrophy flux associated with inertial transport to small scales. Clear signatures of the cascade emerge for $N\gtrsim 500$ vortices. Simulating up to very large Reynolds numbers ($N = 32, 768$ vortices), additional features of the classical theory are observed: the Kraichnan-Batchelor constant is found to converge to $C' \approx 1.6$, and the width of the $k^{-3}$ range scales as $\mathrm{Re_s}^{1/2}$. The results support a universal phenomenology underpinning classical and quantum fluid turbulence. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Strongly anomalous non-thermal fixed point in a quenched two-dimensional Bose gas ENDTITLE Strongly anomalous non-thermal fixed point in a quenched two-dimensional Bose gas ENDTITLES Universal scaling behavior in the relaxation dynamics of an isolated two-dimensional Bose gas is studied by means of semi-classical stochastic simulations of the Gross-Pitaevskii model. The system is quenched far out of equilibrium by imprinting vortex defects into an otherwise phase-coherent condensate. A strongly anomalous non-thermal fixed point is identified, associated with a slowed decay of the defects in the case that the dissipative coupling to the thermal background noise is suppressed. At this fixed point, a large anomalous exponent $\eta \simeq -3$ and, related to this, a large dynamical exponent $z \simeq 5$ are identified. The corresponding power-law decay is found to be consistent with three-vortex-collision induced loss. The article discusses these aspects of non-thermal fixed points in the context of phase-ordering kinetics and coarsening dynamics, thus relating phenomenological and analytical approaches to classifying far-from-equilibrium scaling dynamics with each other. In particular, a close connection between the anomalous scaling exponent $\eta$, introduced in a quantum-field theoretic approach, and conservation-law induced scaling in classical phase-ordering kinetics is revealed. Moreover, the relation to superfluid turbulence as well as to driven stationary systems is discussed. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Einstein-Bose Condensation of Onsager Vortices ENDTITLE Einstein-Bose Condensation of Onsager Vortices ENDTITLES We have studied statistical mechanics of a gas of vortices in two dimensions. We draw a sharp distinction between clustering and condensation of vortices and use these observables to show that the large scale vortex structures characteristic of two-dimensional turbulence emerge well before the critical temperature for the Einstein-Bose condensation transition of Onsager vortices is reached. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Hydrodynamics of Quantum Vortices in Two Dimensions ENDTITLE Hydrodynamics of Quantum Vortices in Two Dimensions ENDTITLES We show that in two dimensional superfluids a large number of quantum vortices with positive and negative circulations behave as an inviscid fluid on large scales. Two hydrodynamical velocities are introduced to describe this emergent binary vortex fluid, via vortex number current and vortex change current. The velocity field associated with the vortex number current evolves according to a hydrodynamic equation, subject to an anomalous stress absent from Euler's equation. In contrast to the chiral vortex fluid containing only like-sign vortices, the binary vortex fluid is compressible and the orbital angular momentum is not conserved, as characterized by an asymmetric Cauchy stress tensor. Dissipation effects due to thermal friction and vortex-sound interactions induce an effective damping rate, an anomalous viscous stress tensor, and a coefficient of second viscosity. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Vortex Thermometry for Turbulent Two-Dimensional Fluids ENDTITLE Vortex Thermometry for Turbulent Two-Dimensional Fluids ENDTITLES We introduce a new method of statistical analysis to characterise the dynamics of turbulent fluids in two dimensions. We establish that in equilibrium the vortex distributions can be uniquely connected to the temperature of the vortex gas, and apply this vortex thermometry to characterise simulations of decaying superfluid turbulence. We confirm the hypothesis of vortex evaporative heating leading to Onsager vortices proposed in Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 165302 (2014), and find previously unidentified vortex power-law distributions which emerge from the dynamics. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Numerical Studies of Quantum Turbulence ENDTITLE Numerical Studies of Quantum Turbulence ENDTITLES We review numerical studies of quantum turbulence. Quantum turbulence is currently one of the most important problems in low temperature physics and is actively studied for superfluid helium and atomic Bose--Einstein condensates. A key aspect of quantum turbulence is the dynamics of condensates and quantized vortices. The dynamics of quantized vortices in superfluid helium are described by the vortex filament model, while the dynamics of condensates are described by the Gross--Pitaevskii model. Both of these models are nonlinear, and the quantum turbulent states of interest are far from equilibrium. Hence, numerical studies have been indispensable for studying quantum turbulence. In fact, numerical studies have contributed in revealing the various problems of quantum turbulence. This article reviews the recent developments in numerical studies of quantum turbulence. We start with the motivation and the basics of quantum turbulence and invite readers to the frontier of this research. Though there are many important topics in the quantum turbulence of superfluid helium, this article focuses on inhomogeneous quantum turbulence in a channel, which has been motivated by recent visualization experiments. Atomic Bose--Einstein condensates are a modern issue in quantum turbulence, and this article reviews a variety of topics in the quantum turbulence of condensates {\it e.g.} two-dimensional quantum turbulence, weak wave turbulence, turbulence in a spinor condensate, $etc.$, some of which has not been addressed in superfluid helium and paves the novel way for quantum turbulence researches. Finally we discuss open problems. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Origin of the inverse energy cascade in two-dimensional quantum turbulence ENDTITLE Origin of the inverse energy cascade in two-dimensional quantum turbulence ENDTITLES We unravel the intimate connection between fundamental characteristics of two dimensional turbulence, i.e. the large-scale coherent structures and the inverse energy cascade. We propose a driven, dissipative point vortex model that is able to capture the dynamics of two-dimensional quantum turbulence by the emergent clustering of same-sign vortices, which form a non-equilibrium analogue of Onsager vortex equilibria. The inverse energy cascade developing in a statistically neutral system originates from this clustering of co-rotating and counter-rotating vortices. The Kolmogorov energy spectrum $k^{-5/3}$ is attributed to the scale-free correlations in the vorticity field fluctuations, here measured by the weighted pair correlation function that has a power-law decay as $r^{-4/3}$ on inertial separation lengthscales $r$. This scale-invariant statistics of vorticity, attributed to a conformal symmetry of two-dimensional classical turbulence, draws further analogies between classical and quantum turbulence beyond the Kolmogorov energy spectrum. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Quark mass and "Nc" dependence of meson-meson scattering and light resonances within unitarized chiral perturbation theory ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Quark mass and "Nc" dependence of meson-meson scattering and light resonances within unitarized chiral perturbation theory ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Quark mass and "Nc" dependence of meson-meson scattering and light resonances within unitarized chiral perturbation theory ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Regular magnetic Black hole Gravitational Lensing ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Various Aspects of Holographic Entanglement Entropy and Mutual Information ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Hodge-GUE correspondence and the discrete KdV equation ENDTITLE Hodge-GUE correspondence and the discrete KdV equation ENDTITLES We prove the conjectural relationship recently proposed by two of the authors of the present paper between certain special cubic Hodge integrals of the Gopakumar-Mari\~no-Vafa type and GUE correlators. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Datamining für den IceCube-Detektor. Optimierung einer Multiensemblemethode zur Analyse von IC59-Monte-Carlo-Daten ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Ricostruzione di traccia in tempo reale su FPGA ad LHC ENDTITLES n questa tesi abbiamo studiato l’implementazione su FPGA di un nuovo algoritmo di tracciatura che trae ispirazione dal funzionamento dell’apparato visivo dei mammiferi, chiamato Retina Artificiale. Questo algoritmo sfrutta il calcolo parallelo della risposta di una matrice di celle, che contengono una banca dati di tracce memorizzate, coprendo tutto lo spazio dei parametri in cui le tracce sono definite. Interpolando la risposta delle celle adiacenti, `e possibile ottenere un’alta efficienza mantenendo limitato il numero di celle usate. Descriveremo in particolare il progetto di una unit`a di processamento di tracce (Track Processing Unit, TPU), un sistema che implementa l’algoritmo retina da utilizzare a Livello 0 (L0) della catena di trigger, realizzabile su dispositivi a logica programmabile di tipo FPGA. La TPU ha come obiettivo quello di ricostruire in dettaglio eventi alla massima frequenza di collisioni ad LHC, 40MHz. Il suo utilizzo `e in particolare rivolto a quel genere di misure, in cui es- eguire una efficiente selezione degli eventi richiede una ricostruzione accurata delle tracce dell’evento, in particolar modo quelle che coinvolgono i quark pe- santi charm e bottom. Infatti, gli eventi che contengono i quark b e c, sono privi di una segnatura caratteristica utile per preselezionare gli eventi, come l’energia totale trasversa, l’energia trasversa mancante o la presenza di lep- toni ad alto impulso trasverso. In questo scenario deve operare l’esperimento LHCb, situato al Large Hadron Collider del CERN a Ginevra, il cui scopo specifico `e studiare la fisica dei quark pesanti. Sono state simulate le prestazioni della TPU sia nella configurazione di LHCb prevista per il 2015, in cui la frequenza degli eventi `e pari a 1 MHz, e nella configurazione prevista per il 2020, in cui la frequenza sar`a di 40 MHz. Nel primo caso abbiamo assunto di inviare alla TPU i dati provenienti dal rivelatore Inner Tracker (IT), mentre nel secondo dal rivelatore di veritce (VELO) e dal rivelatore Upstream Detector (UT). Il lavoro di tesi consiste nell’implementazione dell’algoritmo utilizzando i linguaggio di descrizione della logica di alto livello, VHDL. La simulazione logica, anche ad uno stadio iniziale, risulta fondamentale per dimostrare la fattibilit`a tecnica in termini di velocit`a, dimensioni, costi dell’apparato. Per l’implementazione della TPU, abbiamo utilizzato due diversi dispos- itivi a logica programmabile prodotti dalla ditta Altera. Nel caso dell’IT abbiamo utilizzato un dispositivo di media grandezza, appartenente alla famiglia Altera Stratix III, mentre nel caso del VELO abbiamo usato un dispositivo altamente performante, appartenente alla famiglia Altera Stratix V. La prima scelta `e stata guidata dal fatto che lo Stratix III `e usato nella scheda TEL62, una scheda recentemente sviluppata dall’INFN di Pisa per l’esperimento NA62, progettata in modo da mantenere una completa com- patibilit`a con il sistema di acquisizione dati di LHCb. Questo permetter`a in futuro di effettuare un test parassitico della TPU direttamente sui rivelatori di LHCb. Dall’altro lato, la famiglia Altera Stratix V `e stata scelta per il VELO poich ́e si prevede di usare questa famiglia di dispositivi nel sistema di DAQ di LHCb, previsto nell’Upgrade del 2020. Nel caso dell’IT abbiamo confrontato la simulazione logica con una simu- lazione di alto livello scritta in C++, utilizzando dati provenienti dalla sim- ulazione Montecarlo ufficiale di LHCb nella configurazione del 2015. Nella configurazione del VELO abbiamo sviluppato un modello per verificare le prestazioni del dispositivo in termini di latenza. Nel primo Capitolo si discutono i benefici di un sistema di tracciatura in tempo reale, riferendoci ad alcuni esempi di sistemi di tracciatura implemen- tati in esperimenti passati e attuali installati ai collisionatori adronici. Nel secondo Capitolo si descrive l’attuale esperimento LHCb e la configurazione prevista per l’upgrade del 2020, focalizzandoci sul sistema di trigger e dei rivelatori di traccia. Descriviamo quindi in dettaglio l’algoritmo della retina artificiale e la TPU nel Capitolo 3. Nel Capitolo 4 si introducono i dispositivi a logica programmabile, motivando la scelta dei dispositivi denominati FPGA e descrivendo gli FPGA di Altera e i software utilizzati per la progettazione e la simulazione degli stessi. Nel quinto Capitolo si descrive l’implementazione della TPU applicata all’IT, presentando i risultati della simulazione logica. Infine, nel Capitolo 6 si descrive l’applicazione della TPU per i rivelatori VELO e UT nella configurazione di LHCb del 2020. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Invariance of tautological equations II: Gromov–Witten theory ENDTITLE Invariance of tautological equations II: Gromov--Witten theory ENDTITLE Invariance of tautological equations II: Gromov–Witten theory ENDTITLES The aim of Part II is to explore the technique of invariance of tautological equations in the realm of Gromov--Witten theory. The main result is a proof of Invariance Theorem (Invariance Conjecture~1 in [14]), via the techniques from Gromov--Witten theory. It establishes some general inductive structure of the tautological rings, and provides a new tool to the study of this area. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Radiation hardness of semiconductor detectors for high energy physics applications ENDTITLE Radiation hardness of semiconductor detectors for high energy physics applications ENDTITLES In the high energy physics experiments at the CERN Large Hadron Collider, the silicon detectors will suffer high radiation damage due to the large hadron (pions, protons and neutrons) fluences. It has been estimated that fluences up to 1.6×1014 1-MeV equivalent neutrons/cm2 are expected in the 10 years of operation for the silicon strip tracker of the CMS experiment (CMS collaboration, 1998). Radiation damage causes degradation of the detector performance due to: (a) the monotonic increase of the reverse leakage current, (b) the increase of the detector depletion voltage (Vdep), after substrate space charge sign inversion due to deep acceptor generations. The ROSE Collaboration (Lindstrom et al., 2001) at CERN has widely investigated how the Vdep increase can be mitigated by introduction of impurities in the silicon substrate. Particularly, high oxygen concentrations ([O]>1017 cm−3) drastically reduce the Vdep increase for charged hadron (protons and pions) irradiation, whereas no such effect is observed after neutron irradiation (Lindstrom et al., 2001). In this study we present the characteristics of the bulk damage degradation induced by protons and neutrons with different energy spectra, in silicon detectors produced by various manufacturers on standard and oxygenated silicon substrates. This summary highlight the state of the art for technologies in detector radiation hardening for high energy physics applications. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
A new noise-free neutrino astronomy at 20 GeV? ENDTITLES Upward atmospheric neutrino flux at about 20GeV can be sup- pressed by neutrino oscillation and matter effects through the diameter of the Earth. We calculated the neutrino event rate for IceCube Deep Core experiment and found that such a suppression of atmospheric neutrino background, for this energy and direction window, is detectable. Soon, experimental results can be compared and verified. This effect may offer a clean portion of the sky for low-energy astrophysi- cal neutrinos. Further, physical tests may come from artificial neutrino beams into Deep Core. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
MCNP optimization of filtered neutron beams for calibration of the SIMPLE detector ENDTITLE MCNP optimization of filtered neutron beams for calibration of the SIMPLE detector ENDTITLES We report an MCNP study of filtered monochromatic neutron beams of energies 25, 54 and 149 keV for response studies of a superheated droplet detector for the SIMPLE experiment. The results identify the importance of the detector temperature stabilizing water bath and the aqueous gel of the detector on the beam quality, in general agreement with recent measurements made on the thermal port of the Portuguese research reactor. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Measurements of the energy of relativistic high energy charged particles by a novel superconducting transition radiation detector ENDTITLE Measurements of the energy of relativistic high energy charged particles by a novel superconducting transition radiation detector ENDTITLES In want of a detector capable of measuring accurately the energy of relativistic high energy charged particles, a novel transition radiation detector (TRD) utilizing superheated superconducting microspheres of tin of 22–26, 27–32 and 32–38 μm in diameter respectively has been constructed. For the purpose of enhancing the TR effect, the TRD is operated at ∼100 mK. A test has been conducted in a high energy electron beam facility at the CERN PS in the energy range of 1–10 GeV showing an energy dependence of the TR X-ray photon produced and hence the value γ=E/mc2 of the charged particle, thus proving that the TRD is suitable for measuring the energy at least up to 10 GeV. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
The ALICE Silicon Pixel Detector: Electronics System Integration ENDTITLE The ALICE Silicon Pixel Detector: Electronics System Integration ENDTITLES Abstract: The ALICE silicon pixel detector (SPD) comprises the two innermost layers of the ALICE inner tracker system. The SPD includes 120 half staves each consisting of 10 ALICE pixel chips bump bonded to two silicon sensors and one multi-chip read-out module. Each pixel chip contains 8192 active cells, so that the total number of pixel cells in the SPD is ap107. The on-detector read-out is based on a multi-chip-module containing 4 ASICs and an optical transceiver module. The constraints on material budget detector module dimensions are very demanding ENDABSTRACTS CORE
The barrel sector assembly system of the ALICE silicon pixel detector ENDTITLE The barrel sector assembly system of the ALICE silicon pixel detector ENDTITLES The Silicon Pixel Detector is the inner part of the ITS tracking system of the ALICE experiment at LHC. The 240 silicon modules, hosting almost 10 million pixel cells with dimension 50 /spl middot/ 425 /spl mu/m/sup 2/, have to be assembled on a carbon fiber support with micrometric precision. To reach this result, a dedicated high-precision computer-controlled tooling system has been developed at the INFN Padova. The assembly system and the mounting procedures are presented. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
The mechanics and cooling system of the ALICE silicon pixel detector ENDTITLE The mechanics and cooling system of the ALICE silicon pixel detector ENDTITLES The mechanics and cooling system for the silicon pixel detector of ALICE is presented. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Supersymmetric versus SO(10) models of dark matter ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
On f(R) gravity in scalar–tensor theories ENDTITLE On f(R) gravity in scalar–tensor theories ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Проблемы физики высоких энергий и квантовой теории поля. IV. Международный семинар. Протвино 1981. Том II. Труды Международного семинара по проблемам физики высоких энергий и квантовой теории поля, Протвино, июль 1981. Том II [Problemy fiziki vysokikh ènergiĭ i kvantovoĭ teorii polya. IV. Mezhdunarodnyĭ seminar. Protvino 1981. Tom II. Trudy Mezhdunarodnogo seminara po problemam fiziki vysokikh ènergiĭ i kvantovoĭ teorii polya, Protvino, iyul' 1981. Tom II]. Proceedings of the International Seminar on High Energy Physics and Quantum Field Theory. Protvino, July 1981. Vol. 2. ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Identification of excited states and collectivity in Se88 ENDTITLE Identification of excited states and collectivity in Se88 ENDTITLES The γ decays of excited states in the very neutron-rich nucleus 88Se have been observed following the neutron-induced fission of 235U. The measurement was performed using the EXILL array of Ge detectors at the PF1B cold-neutron beam facility of the Institut Laue-Langevin, Grenoble. The level scheme of 88Se was established using γ−γ−γ coincidences. A low (2+1) energy hints at the onset of quadrupole deformation, and the identification of possible members of a (2+2) band provide evidence for γ vibrations. Shell-model calculations using a 78Ni core reproduce the decay scheme well. Equivalent deformation and B(E2) values have previously been predicted for 88Se using pseudo-SU(3), shell-model, and beyond mean-field frameworks implying that interactions between particles in the πf5/2p and νsd orbits are mostly responsible for the collectivity present. ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Sensitivity and Background Estimates for Phase-II of the COMET Experiment ENDTITLES Conservation of Lepton Flavour in the Standard Model (SM) requires that neutrino emission accompanies muon decay. COMET is one experiment looking for Charged Lepton Flavour Violation. It searches for COherent Muon to Electron Transitions, where a muon converts to a 105 MeV electron in the presence of an atomic nucleus, without emitting neutrinos. The current limit on this process is $7\times10^{-13}$ at 90% C.L., which COMET intends to improve by four orders of magnitude. To realise such an improvement, COMET will use several novel techniques to produce a very intense, low-energy muon beam, with very high signal acceptance and strong background suppression. Given the challenge this presents, COMET will run in a staged approach. Phase-I is currently under construction with first data-taking due in JFY 2018, and the goal of measuring $\mu$-e conversion with a Single-Event Sensitivity (SES) of $3\times10^{-15}$. Phase-II should follow at the start of the next decade and achieve a SES of $3\times10^{-17}$. This thesis provides an overview of CLFV, $\mu$-e conversion, and the COMET experiment itself. It sets out the software and simulation that has been developed to help understand and analyse the experiment, and then uses this to perform a comprehensive optimisation of the Phase-II set-up, providing a new baseline configuration. The expected performance of this baseline is assessed, with studies on the signal sensitivity demonstrating that an SES of $2.6\times10^{-17}$ can be achieved in $1.57\times10^{7}$ s of beam. Background rates are also estimated and, although subject to large uncertainties, predict 0.662 background events can be expected during Phase-II. Suggestions for future performance studies and experiment improvements are also discussed, with a possible improvement in the SES of a factor of 2.5 likely achievable. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Estudo da sensibilidade do LHCb às oscilações $D^0 - \bar{D}^0$ usando-se decaimentos $D^0 \to K^- \pi^+$ ENDTITLES Esta tese trata da sensibilidade do experimento LHCb aos parâmetros característicos das oscilações D0 − D0 , usando-se o modo de decai- mento D0 → K−π+, K+π− . O estudo inicia-se com a revisão dos aspec- tos fenomenológicos e teóricos mais relevantes a respeito das transições méson-antiméson no setor de charm do Modelo Padrão. São discutidos o formalismo básico da fenomenologia das oscilações D0 − D0 , as predi- ções do Modelo Padrão e a conexão entre as transições méson-antiméson e a possibilidade e a busca por sinais de física nova. O estudo prossegue com a apresentada das características básicas do experimento LHCb. Nesta etapa são discutidos a estrutura geral do aparato e seu objetivo. Apresenta-se ainda cada um dos subsistemas de detecção bem como os recursos de computação e monitoramento do experimento. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Phenomenology of Particle Dark Matter ENDTITLES The fundamental nature of dark matter (DM) remains unknown. In this thesis, we explore new ways to probe properties of particle DM across different phenomenological settings. In the first part of this thesis, we overview evidence, candidates and searches for DM. In the second part of this thesis, we focus on model building and signals for DM searches at the Large Hadron Collider (LHC). Specifically, in Chapter 2, the use of effective field theories (EFTs) for DM at the LHC is explored. We show that many widely used EFTs are not gauge invariant, and how, in the context of the mono-W signal, their use can lead to unphysical signals at the LHC. To avoid such issues, the next iteration of a minimal DM framework, called simplified models, are considered. We discuss use of such models at the LHC in Chapter 3, and show that in the context of a renormalizable gauge-invariant theory, any isospin violating effects in mono-W signals cannot be large. In Chapter 4, we discuss an alternative search strategy to mono-X searches at the LHC — in the case that DM does not couple directly to hadrons, the mono-X signature does not exist, and instead a leptophilic DM signature can be probed. We focus on the prospects for leptophilic DM with a spin-1 mediator at the LHC, and discuss constraints from other experiments. In the third part of this thesis, we turn to astrophysical signals of DM. In Chapter 5, we show that a consequence of enforcing gauge invariance in simplified DM models provides a new dominant s-wave DM annihilation process for indirect detection searches, and set limits on the annihilation cross section from Pass 8 observations of the Fermi Gamma-ray Space Telescope. In Chapter 6, we demonstrate the impact of mass generation for simplified models, finding that the relic density and indirect detection constraints, along with the DM interaction types, are strongly dictated by the mass generation mechanism chosen. In Chapter 7, we show that the multi-mediator approach advocated in the previous two chapters can also lead to a new dominant signal, in the form of dark initial state radiation. Finally in Chapter 8, we look to the Sun to find that if DM annihilates to long-lived mediators, the gamma rays and neutrinos produced can be strongly probed by gamma-ray telescopes and observatories Fermi-LAT, HAWC, and LHAASO, as well as neutrino telescopes IceCube and KM3Net. Interestingly, these telescopes can provide the strongest probe of the DM spin dependent scattering cross section, outperforming standard high-energy solar neutrino searches and direct detection experiments by several orders of magnitude. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Évolution des chocs caractéristiques dans les champs dérivant d'un principe variationnel ENDTITLES The law of evolution of characteristic chocks in fields which satisfy the variational equations of Euler-Lagrange (with convex energy density) is given and it is shown that the stability of the shocks depends on the sign of some given quantity. In particular the largest value of the shock may be reached on the caustics. It also becomes evident that the equations of perfect fluids cannot be obtained from a variational principle (with convex energy density). French abstract: On donne la loi d'évolution des chocs caractéristiques dans les champs qui satisfont les équations d'Euler-Lagrange et on montre que la stabilité du choc est liée au signe d'une certaine quantité. Le choc maximal pourra, en particulier, se produire lorsque se forme la caustique. On montre aussi que les équations du fluide parfait ne peuvent être déduites d'un principe variationnel avec densité d'energie convexe. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
On Hawking Radiation via Tunneling from the Reissner-Nordström-de Sitter Black Hole with a Global Monopole ENDTITLE On Hawking Radiation via Tunneling from the Reissner-Nordström-de Sitter Black Hole with a Global Monopole ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Hawking Radiation of the Charged Particle Via Tunneling from the Reissner-Nordström Black Hole ENDTITLE Hawking Radiation of the Charged Particle Via Tunneling from the Reissner-Nordström Black Hole ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
The TORCH detector R&D: Status and perspectives ENDTITLE The TORCH detector R&D: Status and perspectives ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Performance simulation of BaBar DIRC bar boxes in TORCH ENDTITLE Performance simulation of BaBar DIRC bar boxes in TORCH ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Thermal Shock Induced by a 24 GeV Proton Beam in the Test Windows of the Muon Collider Experiment E951 – Test Results and Theoretical Predictions ENDTITLES The need for intense muon beams for muon colliders and neutrino factories has lead to a concept of a high performance target station in which a 1-4 MW proton beam of 6-24 GeV impinges on a target inside a high field solenoid channel. While novel technical issues exist regarding the survivability of the target itself, the need to pass the tightly focused proton beam through beam windows poses additional concerns. In this paper, issues associated with the interaction of a proton beam with window structures designed for the muon targetry experiment E951 at BNL are explored. Specifically, a 24 GeV proton beam up to 16 x 10$^{12}$ per pulse and a pulse length of approximately 100 ns is expected to be tightly focused (to 0.5 mm rms one sigma radius) on an experimental target. Such beam will induce very high thermal, quasi-static and shock stresses in the window structure that exceed the strength of most common materials. In this effort, a detailed assessment of the thermal/shock response of beam windows is attempted with a goal of identifying the best window material candidate. Further, experimental strain results and comparison with the predicted values are presented and discussed. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Quasi-Local Energy-Momentum and Angular Momentum in GR: A Review Article ENDTITLE Quasi-Local Energy-Momentum and Angular Momentum in GR: A Review Article ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Hodge Integrals and Integrable Hierarchies ENDTITLE Hodge Integrals and Integrable Hierarchies ENDTITLE Hodge Integrals and Integrable Hierarchies ENDTITLES We show that the generating series of some Hodge integrals involving one or two partitions are tau-functions of the KP hierarchy or the 2-Toda hierarchy respectively. We also formulate a conjecture on the connection between relative invariants and integrable hierarchies. The conjecture is verified in some examples. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Quantum superstring corrections and AdS/CFT ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Construction and Commissioning of the Magnets for the OPERA Experiment ENDTITLE Construction and Commissioning of the Magnets for the OPERA Experiment ENDTITLES The construction and commissioning of the 990-ton gapless iron magnets for the OPERA experiment is presented. These magnets have been built in a deep underground hall of the Gran Sasso laboratories between 2003 and 2006 and they have been switched on for the first time in March 2006. In this poster we discuss the mechanic, electric and thermal characterization of these devices as well as measurements of the magnetic field by means of pickup coils. Moreover, we discuss the commissioning of the auxiliary systems (power supply, water cooling plant); first neutrino beam has been sent in August 2006 and is also reported. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Flavor violation of charged leptons in the Simplest Little Higgs model ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Flavor violation of charged leptons in the Simplest Little Higgs model ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Attractor mechanism in gauged Supergravity ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
LEFT-RIGHT-SYMMETRIC MODEL BUILDING ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Gravitons on de Sitter modified by quantum fluctuations of a nonminimally coupled massive scalar ENDTITLES We investigate the one loop contributions to the graviton self-energy from a nonminimally coupled massive scalar perturbatively on a de Sitter background space-time. We assume a positive effective mass m^2 + \xi R > 0. We canonically quantize the scalar field and derive the de Sitter invariant Chernikov-Tagirov propagator. The graviton is defined as a small perturbation around a de Sitter background and the two one loop Feynman diagrams contributing to the graviton selfenergy are computed through the effective action. We find that the diagram contributing to the nonlocal part of the graviton self-energy is proportional to the connected energy-momentum tensor correlator, where the expectation value is with respect to the de Sitter invariant Bunch-Davies vacuum. We employ dimensional regularization. The connected energy-momentum correlator is calculated and only partially renormalized due to the many divergences present. The second diagram is a local contribution to the graviton self-energy and is renormalized by the inverse gravitational constant and cosmological constant counterterms. The renormalized graviton selfenergy can be used to quantum correct the linearized Einstein equation enabling us to investigate if nonminimally coupled massive scalars, produced during inflation, have an effect on dynamical gravitons and the force of gravity at one loop order. The connected energy-momentum correlator has importance on its own as it is the variance of the expectation value of the energy-momentum tensor and is needed to answer whether or not the expectation value of the energy-momentum tensor is a good description for backreaction. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Gravitons on de Sitter modified by quantum fluctuations of a nonminimally coupled massive scalar ENDTITLES We investigate the one loop contributions to the graviton self-energy from a nonminimally coupled massive scalar perturbatively on a de Sitter background space-time. We assume a positive effective mass m^2 + \xi R > 0. We canonically quantize the scalar field and derive the de Sitter invariant Chernikov-Tagirov propagator. The graviton is defined as a small perturbation around a de Sitter background and the two one loop Feynman diagrams contributing to the graviton selfenergy are computed through the effective action. We find that the diagram contributing to the nonlocal part of the graviton self-energy is proportional to the connected energy-momentum tensor correlator, where the expectation value is with respect to the de Sitter invariant Bunch-Davies vacuum. We employ dimensional regularization. The connected energy-momentum correlator is calculated and only partially renormalized due to the many divergences present. The second diagram is a local contribution to the graviton self-energy and is renormalized by the inverse gravitational constant and cosmological constant counterterms. The renormalized graviton selfenergy can be used to quantum correct the linearized Einstein equation enabling us to investigate if nonminimally coupled massive scalars, produced during inflation, have an effect on dynamical gravitons and the force of gravity at one loop order. The connected energy-momentum correlator has importance on its own as it is the variance of the expectation value of the energy-momentum tensor and is needed to answer whether or not the expectation value of the energy-momentum tensor is a good description for backreaction. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Amplitude analysis of the decay $D^+ \to \pi^- \pi^+ \pi^+$ in the LHCb experiment ENDTITLES This thesis is dedicated to the study of the resonant structure of the $D^+ \to \pi^- \pi^+ \pi^+$ decay mode using Dalitz plot analysis in a data sample corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 2.0 fb$^{−1}$ of proton–proton collisions at 8 TeV recorded by the LHCb detector during 2012. The Dalitz Plot Analysis is a unique tool to investigate the spectroscopy of light mesons. In particular for the scalar sector there are a few π−π+ resonances, such as the σ(500), f0(980) and higher mass f0 states which are not well understood, with properties poorly known. The study of the Dalitz plot through and amplitude analysis is performed for about 600 thousand events of D+ → π−π+π+ with two techniques. We first use the so-called Isobar Model, where the final state is described as a coherent sum of quasi two-body states. Within this formalism we find that the Dalitz plot is well represented by a combination of seven quasi-two-body decay channels, which are the σ(500) , ρ(770)0, f0(980), f2(1250), f0(1370), ρ(1450)0 and f0(1500) resonances in the π+π− system as well as a nonresonant (NR) component. Then a Model Independent Partial Wave Analysis (MI-PWA) to measure the S-wave component on the π+π− system is also implemented for the first time on this channel. We show that $D^+ \to \pi^- \pi^+ \pi^+$ decay is dominated by the S-wave structure. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Amplitude analysis of the decay $D^+ \to \pi^- \pi^+ \pi^+$ in the LHCb experiment ENDTITLES This thesis is dedicated to the study of the resonant structure of the $D^+ \to \pi^- \pi^+ \pi^+$ decay mode using Dalitz plot analysis in a data sample corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 2.0 fb$^{−1}$ of proton–proton collisions at 8 TeV recorded by the LHCb detector during 2012. The Dalitz Plot Analysis is a unique tool to investigate the spectroscopy of light mesons. In particular for the scalar sector there are a few π−π+ resonances, such as the σ(500), f0(980) and higher mass f0 states which are not well understood, with properties poorly known. The study of the Dalitz plot through and amplitude analysis is performed for about 600 thousand events of D+ → π−π+π+ with two techniques. We first use the so-called Isobar Model, where the final state is described as a coherent sum of quasi two-body states. Within this formalism we find that the Dalitz plot is well represented by a combination of seven quasi-two-body decay channels, which are the σ(500) , ρ(770)0, f0(980), f2(1250), f0(1370), ρ(1450)0 and f0(1500) resonances in the π+π− system as well as a nonresonant (NR) component. Then a Model Independent Partial Wave Analysis (MI-PWA) to measure the S-wave component on the π+π− system is also implemented for the first time on this channel. We show that $D^+ \to \pi^- \pi^+ \pi^+$ decay is dominated by the S-wave structure. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Direct Observation of Elastic and Inelastic Photon Scattering by the Giant Dipole REsonance in 60Ni ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Direct Observation of Elastic and Inelastic Photon Scattering by the Giant Dipole REsonance in 60Ni ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Higgs boson interaction with the top quark : CP properties at the LHC ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Higgs boson interaction with the top quark : CP properties at the LHC ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Ondes asymptotiques non linéaires ENDTITLE Ondes asymptotiques non linéaires ENDTITLES (Translated from the French abstract): The first-order term of the asymptotic wave has a particularly simpe form not only when the basic solution is constant but also, as regards its norm, when the equations derive from a variational principle. By means of a change of field variables, the Euler evolution equations are written as a symmetric, first-order system with a second antisymmetric term all the matrices of which are constant except that which multiplies the temporal derivative and which is a double gradient. To DARIO GRAFFI on the occasion of his 70th anniversary. Original French abstract: Le terme du premier ordre de l'onde asymptotique a une forme particulièrement simple non seulement quand la solution de base est constante mais aussi, en ce qui concerne sa norme, lorsque les équations dérivent d'un principe variationnel. Par un changement des variables de champ les équations d'évolution d'Euler s'écrivent comme un système symétrique du premier ordre avec second membre antisymétrique dont toutes les matrices sont constantes sauf celle qui multiplie la dérivée temporelle et qui est un double gradient. A DARIO GRAFFI à l'occasion de son 70-ème anniversaire. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Ondes asymptotiques non linéaires ENDTITLE Ondes asymptotiques non linéaires ENDTITLES (Translated from the French abstract): The first-order term of the asymptotic wave has a particularly simpe form not only when the basic solution is constant but also, as regards its norm, when the equations derive from a variational principle. By means of a change of field variables, the Euler evolution equations are written as a symmetric, first-order system with a second antisymmetric term all the matrices of which are constant except that which multiplies the temporal derivative and which is a double gradient. To DARIO GRAFFI on the occasion of his 70th anniversary. Original French abstract: Le terme du premier ordre de l'onde asymptotique a une forme particulièrement simple non seulement quand la solution de base est constante mais aussi, en ce qui concerne sa norme, lorsque les équations dérivent d'un principe variationnel. Par un changement des variables de champ les équations d'évolution d'Euler s'écrivent comme un système symétrique du premier ordre avec second membre antisymétrique dont toutes les matrices sont constantes sauf celle qui multiplie la dérivée temporelle et qui est un double gradient. A DARIO GRAFFI à l'occasion de son 70-ème anniversaire. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Holographic computation of the Neutron electric dipole moment ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Holographic computation of the Neutron electric dipole moment ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Polarised WW Scattering at the LHC ENDTITLES The polarisation of W and Z bosons is intimately linked to the nature of electroweak symmetry breaking: in the limit of high energies, their longitudinal modes correspond just to the Goldstone bosons. This distinct physical origin means that a polarisation measurement can help us understand the structure of electroweak physics. Such a separation of longitudinal and transverse modes is well established in studies of the high-energy behaviour of gauge boson scattering. However, this classical approach suffers from low rates and large systematic uncertainties. In this thesis we follow two alternative strategies. Angular distributions in gauge boson decays are used to measure the polarisation of the final gauge boson pair. At the same time, we develop a novel approach that probes the polarisation of the initial gauge boson pair in the kinematics of the tagging jets. Instead of the high-energy regime, we focus on the Higgs resonance. We find that both measurements are sensitive to the Higgs-gauge sector, and that especially the latter approach is feasible during the upcoming LHC run. After 300 fb^{−1} of data at 13 TeV, we will be able to separately test the longitudinal and transverse gauge boson couplings to the Higgs boson at the 20% level. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Polarised WW Scattering at the LHC ENDTITLES The polarisation of W and Z bosons is intimately linked to the nature of electroweak symmetry breaking: in the limit of high energies, their longitudinal modes correspond just to the Goldstone bosons. This distinct physical origin means that a polarisation measurement can help us understand the structure of electroweak physics. Such a separation of longitudinal and transverse modes is well established in studies of the high-energy behaviour of gauge boson scattering. However, this classical approach suffers from low rates and large systematic uncertainties. In this thesis we follow two alternative strategies. Angular distributions in gauge boson decays are used to measure the polarisation of the final gauge boson pair. At the same time, we develop a novel approach that probes the polarisation of the initial gauge boson pair in the kinematics of the tagging jets. Instead of the high-energy regime, we focus on the Higgs resonance. We find that both measurements are sensitive to the Higgs-gauge sector, and that especially the latter approach is feasible during the upcoming LHC run. After 300 fb^{−1} of data at 13 TeV, we will be able to separately test the longitudinal and transverse gauge boson couplings to the Higgs boson at the 20% level. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Pulsar glitches as probes of neutron star interiors ENDTITLE Pulsar glitches as probes of neutron star interiors ENDTITLES Pulsar glitches are thought to be consequences of angular momentum transfer between a solid crust, which rotates at the measured pulsar periodicity, and a more rapidly rotating 'loose' component of the neutron star interior. Earlier studies, using particular models for the coupling between crust and interior, showed that the loose component carries about 2.8 percent and over about 1 percent of the total moment of inertia of the Vela pulsar and PSR 1737-30, respectively. Postglitch recovery in four pulsars is analyzed here, and it is deduced that the loose component carries at least 0.8 percent of the total moment of inertia, independent of the form of the coupling. In the context of the 'vortex creep' model of recovery, in which the loose component is the inner-crust neutron superfluid, the constraint on the moment of inertia rules out equations of state that are soft at high densities. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Pulsar glitches as probes of neutron star interiors ENDTITLE Pulsar glitches as probes of neutron star interiors ENDTITLES Pulsar glitches are thought to be consequences of angular momentum transfer between a solid crust, which rotates at the measured pulsar periodicity, and a more rapidly rotating 'loose' component of the neutron star interior. Earlier studies, using particular models for the coupling between crust and interior, showed that the loose component carries about 2.8 percent and over about 1 percent of the total moment of inertia of the Vela pulsar and PSR 1737-30, respectively. Postglitch recovery in four pulsars is analyzed here, and it is deduced that the loose component carries at least 0.8 percent of the total moment of inertia, independent of the form of the coupling. In the context of the 'vortex creep' model of recovery, in which the loose component is the inner-crust neutron superfluid, the constraint on the moment of inertia rules out equations of state that are soft at high densities. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Discovery of Kilohertz Quasi-periodic Oscillations from 4U 1820−303 with [ITAL]Rossi X-Ray Timing Explorer[/ITAL] ENDTITLE Discovery of Kilohertz Quasi-periodic Oscillations from 4U 1820−303 with [ITAL]Rossi X-Ray Timing Explorer[/ITAL] ENDTITLES We have detected high-frequency (HF) quasi-periodic oscillations (QPOs) from the low-mass X-ray binary 4U 1820-303 during observations performed in 1996 October using the Rossi X-ray Timing Explorer. The QPOs are visible when the source occupies the low-state luminosity range LX = 2.4-3.1 × 1037 ergs s-1 (2-20 keV, at 6.4 kpc); the centroid frequency of the main QPO peak varies between 546 +/- 2 Hz and 796 +/- 6 Hz and is tightly correlated with the source count rate. The measured QPO widths are typically ~20 Hz, with mean rms amplitude 4.1% +/- 0.3%. At the upper end of this luminosity range a second significant QPO peak appears with frequency 1065 +/- 7 Hz, width 40 +/- 20 Hz, and rms amplitude 3.2% +/- 0.8%. When both QPOs are visible simultaneously, the difference between their frequencies is 275 +/- 8 Hz. When the source brightens beyond LX = 3.1 × 1037 ergs s-1 (~10% of the Eddington limit for a helium-rich envelope), neither QPO is detected. Neither the magnetospheric beat frequency model nor the sonic point model of HF QPOs provides a perfect explanation of the phenomenology we observe. These results represent the first detection of kilohertz QPO activity in a globular cluster X-ray binary, and provide a new method of directly comparing the properties of cluster and noncluster neutron star binaries. If the highest QPO frequency we observe is identified with the marginally stable orbit in the accretion disk, the neutron star mass may be ~2 Msolar, 35%-50% more massive than usually assumed. This may have consequences for the current evolutionary scenarios for this source and also for the debate about the evolution of millisecond pulsars in globular clusters. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Discovery of Kilohertz Quasi-periodic Oscillations from 4U 1820−303 with [ITAL]Rossi X-Ray Timing Explorer[/ITAL] ENDTITLE Discovery of Kilohertz Quasi-periodic Oscillations from 4U 1820−303 with [ITAL]Rossi X-Ray Timing Explorer[/ITAL] ENDTITLES We have detected high-frequency (HF) quasi-periodic oscillations (QPOs) from the low-mass X-ray binary 4U 1820-303 during observations performed in 1996 October using the Rossi X-ray Timing Explorer. The QPOs are visible when the source occupies the low-state luminosity range LX = 2.4-3.1 × 1037 ergs s-1 (2-20 keV, at 6.4 kpc); the centroid frequency of the main QPO peak varies between 546 +/- 2 Hz and 796 +/- 6 Hz and is tightly correlated with the source count rate. The measured QPO widths are typically ~20 Hz, with mean rms amplitude 4.1% +/- 0.3%. At the upper end of this luminosity range a second significant QPO peak appears with frequency 1065 +/- 7 Hz, width 40 +/- 20 Hz, and rms amplitude 3.2% +/- 0.8%. When both QPOs are visible simultaneously, the difference between their frequencies is 275 +/- 8 Hz. When the source brightens beyond LX = 3.1 × 1037 ergs s-1 (~10% of the Eddington limit for a helium-rich envelope), neither QPO is detected. Neither the magnetospheric beat frequency model nor the sonic point model of HF QPOs provides a perfect explanation of the phenomenology we observe. These results represent the first detection of kilohertz QPO activity in a globular cluster X-ray binary, and provide a new method of directly comparing the properties of cluster and noncluster neutron star binaries. If the highest QPO frequency we observe is identified with the marginally stable orbit in the accretion disk, the neutron star mass may be ~2 Msolar, 35%-50% more massive than usually assumed. This may have consequences for the current evolutionary scenarios for this source and also for the debate about the evolution of millisecond pulsars in globular clusters. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Grid technologies in SPbSU long-range correlations analysis and MC simulations for ALICE ENDTITLES Studies of long-range correlations within the physics program of ALICE [1] require a high accuracy statistical analysis of experimental data. In this report, examples of Grid technologies used for the analysis of several types of correlations in proton-proton and Pb-Pb collisions in ALICE are presented. The main stages of software development and debugging on the basis of the AliAnalysis Manager [2] platform are described, allowing one to make calculations with both local and distributed computing systems (PROOF [3, 4], Grid). Examples of Monte-Carlo calculations are also given. A distributed storage and data processing system (ALICE Environment Grid [5, 6]) providing access to experimental data and results of modeling of proton-proton and Pb-Pb collisions is described. The analysis of large data (tens of Tb) allowed one to obtain results with statistics of more than 20 million events as well as to investigate a topological structure of long- range correlations. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Grid technologies in SPbSU long-range correlations analysis and MC simulations for ALICE ENDTITLES Studies of long-range correlations within the physics program of ALICE [1] require a high accuracy statistical analysis of experimental data. In this report, examples of Grid technologies used for the analysis of several types of correlations in proton-proton and Pb-Pb collisions in ALICE are presented. The main stages of software development and debugging on the basis of the AliAnalysis Manager [2] platform are described, allowing one to make calculations with both local and distributed computing systems (PROOF [3, 4], Grid). Examples of Monte-Carlo calculations are also given. A distributed storage and data processing system (ALICE Environment Grid [5, 6]) providing access to experimental data and results of modeling of proton-proton and Pb-Pb collisions is described. The analysis of large data (tens of Tb) allowed one to obtain results with statistics of more than 20 million events as well as to investigate a topological structure of long- range correlations. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Monte Carlo Study of Experimental Methods in the Search Strategy for the Standard Model Higgs Boson in Proton Collisions at 10 TeV Center of Mass Energy ENDTITLES The sensitivity of the Compact Muon Solenoid (CMS) detector at the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) for 95% confidence limit exclusion, 3sigma significant observation, and 5sigma significant discovery of the Standard Model (SM) Higgs Boson in the H → ZZ* → 4mu decay channel is studied using Monte Carlo tools. The results are in terms of the median probability of achieving a statistically significant result as a function of integrated luminosity. Monte Carlo simulated Higgs boson signal samples from 115--200 GeV along with the ZZ, tt¯ and Zbb¯ background samples were generated assuming s = 10 TeV proton collision energy, and subject to full detector simulation and reconstruction. The Geometrical Discriminator (GD) cut is developed for finding the size of the intersection radius for 4 charged tracks by minimizing the "spatial variance" formed by points on each of the tracks and compared with other prospective experimental methods (cuts). GD is shown to perform with better efficiency in rejecting background events and accepting signal events when compared with impact parameter based cuts (SIP3D). A sequence of mH independent cuts is developed to derive a 4mu sample from the bulk of the signal and background MC data. Optimized mH dependent GD cuts are then used over the events passing the cuts at each mass point and the probability calculations are performed. The calculated median integrated luminosities required to set 95% CL exclusion limits for mH = 115 and 120 GeV are 130.3 and 54.1 fb-1 respectively. Median integrated luminosities of 8.3, 6.0, 4.6 and 4.0 are required to make a 95% CL exclusion limit on mH = 140, 150, 190, and 200 GeV respectively. 3sigma significant observation requires a median integrated luminosity of 6.9, 5.0, 6.0 and 5.7 fb-1 for the mH = 140, 150, 190 and 200 GeV mass points respectively. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Monte Carlo Study of Experimental Methods in the Search Strategy for the Standard Model Higgs Boson in Proton Collisions at 10 TeV Center of Mass Energy ENDTITLES The sensitivity of the Compact Muon Solenoid (CMS) detector at the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) for 95% confidence limit exclusion, 3sigma significant observation, and 5sigma significant discovery of the Standard Model (SM) Higgs Boson in the H → ZZ* → 4mu decay channel is studied using Monte Carlo tools. The results are in terms of the median probability of achieving a statistically significant result as a function of integrated luminosity. Monte Carlo simulated Higgs boson signal samples from 115--200 GeV along with the ZZ, tt¯ and Zbb¯ background samples were generated assuming s = 10 TeV proton collision energy, and subject to full detector simulation and reconstruction. The Geometrical Discriminator (GD) cut is developed for finding the size of the intersection radius for 4 charged tracks by minimizing the "spatial variance" formed by points on each of the tracks and compared with other prospective experimental methods (cuts). GD is shown to perform with better efficiency in rejecting background events and accepting signal events when compared with impact parameter based cuts (SIP3D). A sequence of mH independent cuts is developed to derive a 4mu sample from the bulk of the signal and background MC data. Optimized mH dependent GD cuts are then used over the events passing the cuts at each mass point and the probability calculations are performed. The calculated median integrated luminosities required to set 95% CL exclusion limits for mH = 115 and 120 GeV are 130.3 and 54.1 fb-1 respectively. Median integrated luminosities of 8.3, 6.0, 4.6 and 4.0 are required to make a 95% CL exclusion limit on mH = 140, 150, 190, and 200 GeV respectively. 3sigma significant observation requires a median integrated luminosity of 6.9, 5.0, 6.0 and 5.7 fb-1 for the mH = 140, 150, 190 and 200 GeV mass points respectively. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Updated sensitivities for the discovery of the neutrino mass hierarchy and of CP-violation in the leptonic sector of a very-long baseline neutrino oscillation experiment at 2300 km from CERN ENDTITLES In this addendum to our Expression of Interest [1] (CERN-SPSC-2012-021 (SPSC-EOI-007)), we present an updated study of the sensitivity of the LBNO setup, and discuss the impact of systematic errors and of the a priori knowledge of oscillation parameters. Following the realistic and incremental approach, the initial phase of LBNO foresees an underground ∼20 kton fiducial mass double-phase liquid Argon TPC complemented by a magnetised muon detector at 2300 km from a conventional neutrino beam from the CERN SPS, monitored by a magnetised near detector system. We update our results presented in the EOI, and show that this first realistic phase already provides conclusive and well-motivated physics opportunities. We employ a Monte-Carlo technique simulating a very large number of toy experiments to estimate the confidence level of the MH and CPV measurements. With the capability of reversing the horn focusing polarity, and even under pessimistic assumptions on systematic errors, a few years of running at the CERN SPS suffice for LBNO alone to produce a direct and guaranteed discovery of MH (> 5σ C.L.) over the full phase space of oscillation parameters, and a unique sensitivity to CPV through the exploration of the first and second oscillation maxima. Neglecting any systematic error, LBNO in its first phase, has the power to reach a CPV discovery level > 5σ’s C.L., the actual significance depending on how far from zero and π the true value of δCP is. The actually attainable CPV reach is sensitive to the prior knowledge of the oscillation parameters and to the achievable systematic errors on fluxes, cross-sections and detector-related effects. With conservative assumptions on the systematic errors and after ∼12 years of running at the CERN SPS, a significance for CPV above > 3σ’s C.L. will be reached for ∼ 25(40)% of the δCP values, under the expectation that sin2 2θ13 will be known from reactor experiments with a precision of ±10(2.5)%. Several sources of systematic effects need to be addressed, in order to reduce the overall error balance and reach a discovery level. In particular, improvements in the present knowledge of the neutrino interaction differential cross-sections could increase the expected CPV discovery reach. Alternatively, a second phase of LBNO with an increased exposure with far more detector mass and beam power, aimed at reducing the statistical error around the 2nd oscillation maximum, would allow to reach a > 5σ CPV discovery level over a wide range of δCP values, even under the present conservative assumptions on systematic errors, thanks to the increased dependence on δCP at the 2nd maximum. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Updated sensitivities for the discovery of the neutrino mass hierarchy and of CP-violation in the leptonic sector of a very-long baseline neutrino oscillation experiment at 2300 km from CERN ENDTITLES In this addendum to our Expression of Interest [1] (CERN-SPSC-2012-021 (SPSC-EOI-007)), we present an updated study of the sensitivity of the LBNO setup, and discuss the impact of systematic errors and of the a priori knowledge of oscillation parameters. Following the realistic and incremental approach, the initial phase of LBNO foresees an underground ∼20 kton fiducial mass double-phase liquid Argon TPC complemented by a magnetised muon detector at 2300 km from a conventional neutrino beam from the CERN SPS, monitored by a magnetised near detector system. We update our results presented in the EOI, and show that this first realistic phase already provides conclusive and well-motivated physics opportunities. We employ a Monte-Carlo technique simulating a very large number of toy experiments to estimate the confidence level of the MH and CPV measurements. With the capability of reversing the horn focusing polarity, and even under pessimistic assumptions on systematic errors, a few years of running at the CERN SPS suffice for LBNO alone to produce a direct and guaranteed discovery of MH (> 5σ C.L.) over the full phase space of oscillation parameters, and a unique sensitivity to CPV through the exploration of the first and second oscillation maxima. Neglecting any systematic error, LBNO in its first phase, has the power to reach a CPV discovery level > 5σ’s C.L., the actual significance depending on how far from zero and π the true value of δCP is. The actually attainable CPV reach is sensitive to the prior knowledge of the oscillation parameters and to the achievable systematic errors on fluxes, cross-sections and detector-related effects. With conservative assumptions on the systematic errors and after ∼12 years of running at the CERN SPS, a significance for CPV above > 3σ’s C.L. will be reached for ∼ 25(40)% of the δCP values, under the expectation that sin2 2θ13 will be known from reactor experiments with a precision of ±10(2.5)%. Several sources of systematic effects need to be addressed, in order to reduce the overall error balance and reach a discovery level. In particular, improvements in the present knowledge of the neutrino interaction differential cross-sections could increase the expected CPV discovery reach. Alternatively, a second phase of LBNO with an increased exposure with far more detector mass and beam power, aimed at reducing the statistical error around the 2nd oscillation maximum, would allow to reach a > 5σ CPV discovery level over a wide range of δCP values, even under the present conservative assumptions on systematic errors, thanks to the increased dependence on δCP at the 2nd maximum. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
A Poly-Component Model for Galactic Halo ENDTITLE A Poly-Component Model for Galactic Halo ENDTITLES A polycomponent model for the dark halo of galaxy is proposed. For some two-component dark halo systems We give the rotation curves which are flat at large radii. We calculate deflection angles. In particular, for the two-component model as a gravitational lens we find four critical curves, three of them radial and one tangential. It implies that polycomponent dark matter system might give more critical curves. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Information Dynamics at a Phase Transition ENDTITLE Information Dynamics at a Phase Transition ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Qualitative study of Bianchi type-I, III and Kantowski–Sachs cosmological models with scalar field ENDTITLE Qualitative study of Bianchi type-I, III and Kantowski–Sachs cosmological models with scalar field ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Shock relations and conservative form of the hyperbolic equations of a relativistic gas conducting heat ENDTITLE Shock relations and conservative form of the hyperbolic equations of a relativistic gas conducting heat ENDTITLES By increasing the number of field variables it is possible to write the field equations in a conservative form. The shock fronts as given by the Rankine-Hugoniot conditions propagate at speeds less than the velocity of light. Contact discontinuities no longer exist but other characteristic shocks do. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
First experience with the new Coupling Loss Induced Quench system ENDTITLE First experience with the new Coupling Loss Induced Quench system ENDTITLES New-generation high-field superconducting magnets pose a challenge relating to the protection of the coil winding pack in the case of a quench. The high stored energy per unit volume calls for a very efficient quench detection and fast quench propagation in order to avoid damage due to overheating. A new protection system called Coupling-Loss Induced Quench (CLIQ) was recently developed and tested at CERN. This method provokes a fast change in the magnet transport current by means of a capacitive discharge. The resulting change in the local magnetic field induces inter-filament and inter-strand coupling losses which heat up the superconductor and eventually initiate a quench in a large fraction of the coil winding pack. The method is extensively tested on a Nb–Ti single-wire test solenoid magnet in the CERN Cryogenic Laboratory in order to assess its performance, optimize its operating parameters, and study new electrical configurations. Each parameter is thoroughly analyzed and its impact on the quench efficiency highlighted. Furthermore, an alternative method is also considered, based on a CLIQ discharge through a resistive coil magnetically coupled with the solenoid but external to it. Due to the strong coupling between the external coil and the magnet, the oscillating current in the external coil changes the magnetic field in the solenoid strands and thus generates coupling losses in the strands. Although for a given charging voltage this configuration usually yields poorer quench performance than a standard CLIQ discharge, it has the advantage of being electrically insulated from the solenoid coil, and thus it can work with much higher voltage. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Phase-space organizations in prolate and oblate potentials: Classical, semiclassical, and quantum results ENDTITLES The three-dimensional trajectories of a neutron in an average deformed potential are studied for two different potentials with prolate or oblate ellipsoidal deformations. The simplest one is a simple cavity which is shown to be integrable. The motion is studied and is found to be separable in spheroidal coordinates. It is shown that the phase space of an oblate cavity may contain a separa- trix which is associated with the crossing of the focal circle while the prolate phase space does con- tain a separatrix only for the planar trajectories. By using arguments based on a uniform semiclassi- cal approximation, it is shown that the quantum-energy-level spectra present indeed a difference be- tween prolate and oblate shapes corresponding to the crossing of this separatrix. The second poten- tial studied, the Buck-Pilt potential, has a diffuse surface. When it is deformed it becomes unintegrable. For this potential Poincare surfaces of section are drawn. Large regular regions are shown in which the organization of the phase space is that of the cavity. Chaos and nonlinearities are also seen. Consequences of the existence of the regular regions similar to the cavity are drawn for the energy spectrum. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Time and temperature-dependent correlation function of an impurity in one-dimensional Fermi and Tonks–Girardeau gases as a Fredholm determinant ENDTITLE Time and temperature-dependent correlation function of an impurity in one-dimensional Fermi and Tonks–Girardeau gases as a Fredholm determinant ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Improving robustness of continuous-gravitational-wave searches against signal-like instrumental artefacts and a concept for an octahedral gravitational-wave detector in space ENDTITLES Gravitational waves (GWs) are one of the few remaining predictions of Einstein's theory of general relativity for which no direct evidence has yet been discovered. They promise to open up a completely new window for astronomy. GW signals are expected to be very weak, so that highly sensitive detectors and data-analysis methods are required. Currently, laser-interferometric detectors provide the most promising way for direct GW detection, although the first generation of these detectors has not detected any GWs yet. A second generation with increased sensitivity will come online in the next few years, making these exciting times in GW research. The majority of this thesis is concerned with data analysis for continuous gravitational waves (CWs) with ground-based detectors: long-lasting, narrow-band signals which could be produced by rotating neutron stars with non-axisymmetric deformations. Most CW data-analysis methods assume a Gaussian distribution for the detector noise. Non-Gaussian artefacts of instrumental and environmental origin can decrease the performance of these methods if they are ``signal-like'', i.e. also narrow-band and sufficiently long-lasting. Such artefacts are referred to as ``lines''. The main research work presented in this thesis consists of the development of a Bayesian model-selection approach to mitigate this problem and to increase the line-robustness of CW searches. An explicit ``signal-like'' line model is used to derive new line-robust detection statistics. Simple approaches to tuning these new detection statistics for improved performance are presented, along with extensive numerical tests both on synthetic data sets and with injections of simulated CW signals into real data from the LIGO (\textit{Laser-Interferometric Gravitational Observatory}) detectors. These newly developed methods for CW data analysis are already in use on the distributed-computing project Einstein@Home. Additional research work presented in this thesis covers an extended investigation of the behaviour of these line-robust statistics under extreme conditions, such as large differences in the relative sensitivities of different detectors. Preliminary results are presented for an alternative line model based on unmodulated sinusoids. This thesis also contains a concept study for a space-based GW detector with six spacecraft in an octahedron-shaped constellation, allowing for displacement-noise-cancelling measurements of long-wavelength GWs. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Evaluation of three methods for calculating statistical significance when incorporating a systematic uncertainty into a test of the background-only hypothesis for a Poisson process ENDTITLE Evaluation of three methods for calculating statistical significance when incorporating a systematic uncertainty into a test of the background-only hypothesis for a Poisson process ENDTITLE Evaluation of three methods for calculating statistical significance when incorporating a systematic uncertainty into a test of the background-only hypothesis for a Poisson process ENDTITLES Hypothesis tests for the presence of new sources of Poisson counts amidst background processes are frequently performed in high energy physics (HEP), gamma ray astronomy (GRA), and other branches of science. While there are conceptual issues already when the mean rate of background is precisely known, the issues are even more difficult when the mean background rate has non-negligible uncertainty. After describing a variety of methods to be found in the HEP and GRA literature, we consider in detail three classes of algorithms and evaluate them over a wide range of parameter space, by the criterion of how close the ensemble-average Type I error rate (rejection of the background-only hypothesis when it is true) compares with the nominal significance level given by the algorithm. We recommend wider use of an algorithm firmly grounded in frequentist tests of the ratio of Poisson means, although for very low counts the over-coverage can be severe due to the effect of discreteness. We extend the studies of Cranmer, who found that a popular Bayesian-frequentist hybrid can undercover severely when taken to high Z values. We also examine the profile likelihood method, which has long been used in GRA and HEP; it provides an excellent approximation in much of the parameter space, as previously studied by Rolke and collaborators. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Low-energy meson phenomenology with Resonance Chiral Lagrangian ENDTITLES It is a known fact that, due to the running of the strong coupling, at energies of about or smaller than the proton mass, it is not possible to give a perturbative analytical description using the QCD Lagrangian. Because of this, it becomes unavoidable to restore to other computing methods, such Lattice QCD or effective field theories based on symmetries of the underlying theory. In this thesis we have studied processes involving mesons at low energy using Resonance Chiral Lagrangians. Studied processes are semileptonic tau decays including photons (analyzing the background they constitute to LFV, LNV or SCC searches). We also revisited the light pseudoscalar exchange contribution to the hadronic light-by-light scattering part of the muon g-2 and the decay B -> (pi,K) l+ l- in connection to recent hints of LU breaking in the K modes found by LHCb. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Towards the Ronchi test for gravitational lenses: the gravitoronchigram ENDTITLE Towards the Ronchi test for gravitational lenses: the gravitoronchigram ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Lagrangian Coherent Structures ENDTITLE Lagrangian Coherent Structures ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Nostrum quos iure alias consequatur modi quibusdam ab non saepe in et aut aut maxime velit corrupti ENDTITLES Dolores in reprehenderit cupidatat ut tempora ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Qualitative study of Bianchi type-I, III and Kantowski–Sachs cosmological models with scalar field ENDTITLE Qualitative study of Bianchi type-I, III and Kantowski–Sachs cosmological models with scalar field ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Quench Protection of Very Large, 50-GJ-Class, and High-Temperature-Superconductor-Based Detector Magnets ENDTITLE Quench Protection of Very Large, 50-GJ-Class, and High-Temperature-Superconductor-Based Detector Magnets ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Total reaction cross-sections for light weakly bound systems ENDTITLE Total reaction cross-sections for light weakly bound systems ENDTITLES We have measured the elastic scattering cross-section for 8Li + 9Be and 8Li + 51V systems at 19.6 MeV and 18.5 MeV, respectively. We have also extracted total reaction cross sections from the elastic scattering analysis for several light weakly bound systems using the optical model with Woods-Saxon and double-folding–type potentials. Different reduction methods for the total reaction cross-sections have been applied to analyze and compare simultaneously all the systems. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Investigation of the threshold anomaly in the near-barrier elastic scattering of 7Li on 116Sn ENDTITLE Investigation of the threshold anomaly in the near-barrier elastic scattering of 7Li on 116Sn ENDTITLES Elastic-scattering angular distributions of 7Li on 116Sn have been measured at different bom- barding energies between 18 to 35 MeV. The effects of the weakly bound projectile breakup channel on the bombarding energy dependence of the interaction potential have been investigated. In this work we present the experimental results, along with the theoretical analysis using Woods-Saxon potential to investigate the energy dependence of the interacting polarizing potentials. Total reaction cross-sections are also presented and discussed. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Influence of breakup on fusion barrier distributions ENDTITLE Influence of breakup on fusion barrier distributions ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Threshold anomaly in the elastic scattering of the weakly bound projectile 7Li on the medium-mass target 116Sn ENDTITLE Threshold anomaly in the elastic scattering of the weakly bound projectile 7Li on the medium-mass target 116Sn ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
THE DETECTOR CONTROL SYSTEMS FOR THE CMS RESISTIVE PLATE CHAMBER AT LHC ENDTITLES The RPC Detector Control System (RCS) is the main subject of this PhD work. The project, involving the Lappeenranta University of Technology, the Warsaw University and INFN of Naples, is aimed to integrate the different subsystems for the RPC detector and its trigger chain in order to develop a common framework to control and monitoring the different parts. In this project, I have been strongly involved during the last three years on the hardware and software development, construction and commissioning as main responsible and coordinator. The CMS Resistive Plate Chambers (RPC) system consists of 912 double-gap chambers at its start-up in middle of 2008. A continuous control and monitoring of the detector, the trigger and all the ancillary sub-systems (high voltages, low voltages, environmental, gas, and cooling), is required to achieve the operational stability and reliability of a so large and complex detector and trigger system. Role of the RPC Detector Control System is to monitor the detector conditions and performance, control and monitor all subsystems related to RPC and their electronics and store all the information in a dedicated database, called Condition DB. Therefore the RPC DCS system has to assure the safe and correct operation of the sub-detectors during all CMS life time (more than 10 year), detect abnormal and harmful situations and take protective and automatic actions to minimize consequential damages. The analysis of the requirements and project challenges, the architecture design and its development as well as the calibration and commissioning phases represent the main tasks of the work developed for this PhD thesis. Different technologies, middleware and solutions has been studied and adopted in the design and development of the different components and a big challenging consisted in the integration of these different parts each other and in the general CMS control system and data acquisition framework. Therefore, the RCS installation and commissioning phase as well as its performance and the first results, obtained during the last three years CMS cosmic runs, will be described in this thesis. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Study of High Lying Resonances in 9 Be by the Measurement of (p,p), (p, α ) and (p,d) Reactions ENDTITLES The (p, p), (p, α) and (p, d) reactions on 8 Li were measured at low energies. The experiment was performed using a thick [CH2]n target and a radioactive 8Li beam available at the RIBRAS facility of São Paulo. This experiment represents an upgrade of a previous experiment, where only the 8Li(p, α)5He cross section was measured. High lying resonances of 9Be, which are still uncertain, could be studied in this way. The detection of several reaction channels allows a reliable determination of the resonance parameters, such as energy, width and spin-parity. In the deuteron channel we could observe the same resonance decaying to d + 7Ligs and to d+7Li∗. The properties of the resonances are determined by a R-matrix analysis, which provides evidence for a significant clustering as well in the (p, α) as in the (p, d) channels. The experimental data and the multi-channel R-matrix analysis will be presented. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Upgrade of the ALICE Readout & Trigger System ENDTITLES ALICE (A Large Ion Collider Experiment) is preparing a major upgrade of its experimental apparatus, planned for installation in the second long LHC shutdown (LS2) in the years 2018-2019. These plans are presented in the ALICE Upgrade Letter of Intent submitted to the LHCC in September 2012. This document describes the overall readout and trigger architecture of the upgrade, the radiation environment, as well as the common electronics projects, specifically the SAMPA ASIC and the Common Readout Unit. In addition the document discusses the upgrade plans for the following ALICE subdetectors: Muon Tracking Chambers (MCH), Muon Identifier (MID), Transition Radiation Detector (TDR), Time of Flight Detector (TOF), Fast Interaction Trigger (FIT) and Zero Degree Calorimeter (ZDC). The inclusion of the Electromagentic Calorimeter (EMC), Photon Spectrometer (PHO), High Momentum Particle identifier (HMP) and ALICE Cosmic ray detector (ACO) into the upgrade architecture is discussed as well. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Experiments with the Double Solenoid System RIBRAS ENDTITLES A description of the Radioactive Ion Beams in Brasil (RIBRAS) facility and the result of some experiments recently performed with the double solenoid system will be presented. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
A survey on sufficient conditions for geodesic completeness of nondegenerate hypersurfaces in Lorentzian geometry ENDTITLE A survey on sufficient conditions for geodesic completeness of nondegenerate hypersurfaces in Lorentzian geometry ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Development of interconnected silicon micro-evaporators for the on-detector electronics cooling of the future ITS detector in the ALICE experiment at LHC ENDTITLE Development of interconnected silicon micro-evaporators for the on-detector electronics cooling of the future ITS detector in the ALICE experiment at LHC ENDTITLES The thermal management of the on-detector electronics and the development of low mass integrated cooling systems have become a crucial task in the design of silicon tracking detectors for high energy physics applications. The use of microfabricated ultra-thin silicon cold plates has gained considerable interest in this sense. One of the most challenging open issues with micro-channel devices is the interconnection of several units into a single system, allowing for the thermal management of silicon detectors covering large surfaces. In this paper, we present a novel concept of low mass interconnected silicon microchannel devices for the future Inner Tracking System of the ALICE experiment at CERN. This design involves for the first time flow circulation and fluid evaporation in two hydraulically interconnected devices. The solution proposed satisfies the requirements of the detector while minimizing the mass involved. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Development and application of a generic CFD toolkit covering the heat flows in combined solid–liquid systems with emphasis on the thermal design of HiLumi superconducting magnets ENDTITLE Development and application of a generic CFD toolkit covering the heat flows in combined solid–liquid systems with emphasis on the thermal design of HiLumi superconducting magnets ENDTITLES The main objective of this work is to develop a robust multi-region numerical toolkit for the modeling of heat flows in combined solid–liquid systems. Specifically heat transfer in complex cryogenic system geometries involving super-fluid helium. The incentive originates from the need to support the design of superconductive magnets in the framework of the HiLumi-LHC project (Brüning and Rossi, 2015) [1]. The intent is, instead of solving heat flows in restricted domains, to be able to model a full magnet section in one go including all relevant construction details as accurately as possible. The toolkit was applied to the so-called MQXF quadrupole magnet design. Parametrisation studies were used to find a compromise in thermal design and electro-mechanical construction constraints. The cooling performance is evaluated in terms of temperature margin of the magnets under full steady state heat load conditions and in terms of maximal sustainable load. We also present transient response to pulse heat loads of varying duration and power and the system response to time-varying cold source temperatures. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Physics with Muon Colliders ENDTITLES Facilities using intense muon beams would provide and extremely rich physics program for many years. In particular, compact muon co!liders with a centre-of-mass energy from 100 GeV to 10 TeV could be a natural extension of a neutrino factory based on this kind of beams. Future options after the Tevatron (Fermilab) or the LHC (CERN) therefore include muon colliders as an interesting possibility. Some of the original aspects of such a program, both from the machine point of view (fast muon cooling, backgrounds, neutrino radiation, . . . ) and for its physics·capabilities (large coupling to Higgs bosons, outstanding energy determination, precision tests of the MSSM, . . . ) are discussed in some details. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
The Neutrino Factory ENDTITLES The discovery of neutrino oscillations marks a major milestone in the history of neutrino physics, and opens a window to what lies beyond the Standard Model. Many current and forthcoming experiments will answer open questions however a major step forward, up to and possibly including CP violation in the neutrino-mixing matrix, will be offered by the intense and well-understood neutrino beams from a neutrino factory. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Phenomenological study on classically scale invariant models towards natural realization of the Higgs mass ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Vacuum crystalline structures in field presence: the unified field versatility ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Simulating quantum matter through lattice field theories ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Finite BRST Mapping in Higher-Derivative Models ENDTITLE Finite BRST Mapping in Higher-Derivative Models ENDTITLES We continue the study of finite field-dependent BRST (FFBRST) symmetry in the quantum theory of gauge fields. An expression for the Jacobian of path integral measure is presented, depending on a finite field-dependent parameter, and the FFBRST symmetry is then applied to a number of well-established quantum gauge theories in a form which incudes higher-derivative terms. Specifically, we examine the corresponding versions of the Maxwell theory, non-Abelian vector field theory, and gravitation theory. We present a systematic mapping between different forms of gauge-fixing, including those with higher-derivative terms, for which these theories have better renormalization properties. In doing so, we also provide the independence of the S-matrix from a particular gauge-fixing with higher derivatives. Following this method, a higher-derivative quantum action can be constructed for any gauge theory in the FFBRST framework. ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
A Gauss–Bonnet Cosmology with an Effective Time-Dependent Scalar Potential ENDTITLE A Gauss–Bonnet Cosmology with an Effective Time-Dependent Scalar Potential ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Finite BRST Mapping in Higher-Derivative Models ENDTITLE Finite BRST Mapping in Higher-Derivative Models ENDTITLES We continue the study of finite field-dependent BRST (FFBRST) symmetry in the quantum theory of gauge fields. An expression for the Jacobian of path integral measure is presented, depending on a finite field-dependent parameter, and the FFBRST symmetry is then applied to a number of well-established quantum gauge theories in a form which incudes higher-derivative terms. Specifically, we examine the corresponding versions of the Maxwell theory, non-Abelian vector field theory, and gravitation theory. We present a systematic mapping between different forms of gauge-fixing, including those with higher-derivative terms, for which these theories have better renormalization properties. In doing so, we also provide the independence of the S-matrix from a particular gauge-fixing with higher derivatives. Following this method, a higher-derivative quantum action can be constructed for any gauge theory in the FFBRST framework. ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Next-Leading Order Corrections for Proton Decay in Supersymmetric Unification ENDTITLES The discovery of a Higgs boson with a mass of 125 GeV at the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) experiments opened the door to investigating the new physics beyond the standard model. While the standard model (SM) of particle physics is quite consistent with various experi- mental data, there remain the problems that the SM does not explain. Supersymmetric grand unified theories (SUSY GUTs) are one of the promising extensions of the SM. The framework of SUSY GUTs gives a big-picture of our world below the Planck scale at which quantum gravitational effects become important. Proton decay is a significant phenomenon to verify the SUSY GUTs. The SUSY GUTs also have several problems. The familiar one is a kind of fine-tuning problem called the Doublet-Triplet Splitting problem. The missing partner model which solves this problem requires higher-dimensional representation Higgs multiplets. Various exotic models containing higher-dimensional multiplets have been proposed in order to solve problems in the SUSY GUTs. In the context of the SUSY GUTs, supersymmetric standard models (SUSY SMs) are the low-energy effective theories of them. Lately, the low-energy theories have been constrained because of no signature of new particles at the LHC. After the Higgs discovery, some modifi- cations of the minimal SUSY SM have been proposed in order to explain the observed Higgs mass and no signature of the SUSY particles. In this thesis, we consider the models with extra vector-like multiplets and ones with heavy scalar SUSY particles (sfermions). These models have been focused attention on because they predict diverse phenomenology. The low-energy observables associated with hadron physics are divided into two parts: the Wilson coefficients and the hadron matrix elements. The former includes the effects of UV physics, such as SUSY GUTs, as radiative corrections. Next-Leading order (NLO) cor- rections to the Wilson coefficients have already been performed partially. The latter requires non-perturbative calculations due to the strong coupling at the hadronic scale. The lattice simulation of the hadron matrix elements has also been progressing. In this thesis, we have derived the threshold corrections for proton lifetime, which are comparable with the other NLO correction, but have not been estimated up to present. Fur- thermore, we have estimated the size of threshold corrections at the GUT scale and the SUSY scale in various models numerically. For the threshold corrections at the SUSY mass scale, the effect is found to be about a few percent in decoupled sfermion scenarios. The threshold effect at the GUT scale is strongly model dependent. The effect is less prominent in the minimal SUSY SU(5) model with extra vector-like matters in spite of the large unified coupling. We, however, have found that proton lifetime gets longer by about 60% in the missing partner model. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Fault template extraction to assist operators during industrial alarm floods ENDTITLE Fault template extraction to assist operators during industrial alarm floods ENDTITLES In industrial systems, a fault occurring on a process can create an alarm flood, a succession of alarms raised at a rate per minute so high it overwhelms the process operator in charge of the monitoring of the process. In this paper, a method to extract fault templates from a set of alarm lists raised on the occurrence of several faults is proposed. Alarm lists generated by the same fault are condensed into a weighted sequential fault template formed of the sequence of alarms the most frequently produced on the occurrence of the fault. Each alarm is weighted according to its relevance to diagnose the fault. It is further shown how the fault templates can be used to extract relevant information on the alarm system and be used by operators as guidelines for fault diagnosis. Moreover, an on line fault isolation method using a weighted sequential similarity measure is proposed. The results obtained by the method on a data set formed of alarm lists raised by the control system of the CERN LHC connected to a simulator of one of the LHC processes are presented and discussed. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Growth of long undoped and Ce-doped LuAG single crystal fibers for dual readout calorimetry ENDTITLE Growth of long undoped and Ce-doped LuAG single crystal fibers for dual readout calorimetry ENDTITLES Undoped and Ce3+-doped Lu3Al5O12 (LuAG) fibers were grown to evaluate their potential use in new particle physics experiments, such as dual-readout calorimeters. The choice of grown crystals was made to detect scintillation (doped LuAG) and Cherenkov radiation (undoped LuAG). Growth conditions for obtaining fibers with improved quality were found based on measurements of attenuation length of the fibers and cathodoluminescence measurements. The effect of annealing on attenuation length for LuAG and LuAG:Ce was also studied. In addition, we also evaluated a possibility to substitute LuAG by the cheaper mixed and (Lu,Y)3Al5O12 (LuYAG:Ce) fibers. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Rotating-coil calibration in a reference quadrupole, considering roll-angle misalignment and higher-order harmonics ENDTITLE Rotating-coil calibration in a reference quadrupole, considering roll-angle misalignment and higher-order harmonics ENDTITLES A method is proposed for calibrating the radius of a rotating coil sensor by relaxing the metrological constraints on alignment and field errors of the reference quadrupole. A coil radius calibration considering a roll-angle misalignment of the measurement bench, the magnet, and the motor-drive unit is analyzed. Then, the error arising from higher-order harmonic field imperfections in the reference quadrupole is assessed. The method is validated by numerical field computation for both the higher-order harmonic errors and the roll-angle misalignment. Finally, an experimental proof-of-principle demonstration is carried out in a calibration magnet with sextupole harmonic ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Higher‐order mode absorption measurement of X-band choke-mode cavities in a radial line structure ENDTITLE Higher‐order mode absorption measurement of X-band choke-mode cavities in a radial line structure ENDTITLES An experiment is presented to study the higher-order mode (HOM) suppression of X-band choke-mode structures with a vector network analyzer (VNA). Specific radial line disks were built to test the reflection from the corresponding damping load and different choke geometries. The mismatch between the radial lines and the VNA was calibrated through a special multi-short-load calibration method. The measured reflections of different choke geometries showed good agreement with the theoretical calculations and verified the HOM absorption feature of each geometric design. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Coulomb field strength measurement by electro-optic spectral decoding system at the CALIFES beam line ENDTITLE Coulomb field strength measurement by electro-optic spectral decoding system at the CALIFES beam line ENDTITLES Electro-optic (EO) techniques are increasingly used for longitudinal bunch profile measurements. A bunch profile monitor, based on electro-optic spectral decoding (EOSD), has been developed and demonstrated on the CALIFES beam line at CERN. The EO response is analysed using a frequency domain description, and two methods for extraction of absolute Coulomb field strengths from the electron bunch are demonstrated. Measurements at field strengths up to 1.3 MV/m agree with the expectation based on independent charge measurements. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
An analytical approach for beam loading compensation and excitation of maximum cavity field gradient in a coupled cavity-waveguide system ENDTITLE An analytical approach for beam loading compensation and excitation of maximum cavity field gradient in a coupled cavity-waveguide system ENDTITLES The critical process of beam loading compensation in high intensity accelerators brings under control the undesired effect of the beam induced fields to the accelerating structures. A new analytical approach for optimizing standing wave accelerating structures is found which is hugely fast and agrees very well with simulations. A perturbative analysis of cavity and waveguide excitation based on the Bethe theorem and normal mode expansion is developed to compensate the beam loading effect and excite the maximum field gradient in the cavity. The method provides the optimum values for the coupling factor and the cavity detuning. While the approach is very accurate and agrees well with simulation software, it massively shortens the calculation time compared with the simulation software. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Vibration measurements of a wire scanner – Experimental setup and models ENDTITLE Vibration measurements of a wire scanner – Experimental setup and models ENDTITLES The critical process of beam loading compensation in high intensity accelerators brings under control the undesired effect of the beam induced fields to the accelerating structures. A new analytical approach for optimizing standing wave accelerating structures is found which is hugely fast and agrees very well with simulations. A perturbative analysis of cavity and waveguide excitation based on the Bethe theorem and normal mode expansion is developed to compensate the beam loading effect and excite the maximum field gradient in the cavity. The method provides the optimum values for the coupling factor and the cavity detuning. While the approach is very accurate and agrees well with simulation software, it massively shortens the calculation time compared with the simulation software. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Numerical study of plasma generation process and internal antenna heat loadings in J-PARC RF negative ion source ENDTITLE Numerical study of plasma generation process and internal antenna heat loadings in J-PARC RF negative ion source ENDTITLES A numerical model of plasma transport and electromagnetic field in the J-PARC (Japan Proton Accelerator Research Complex) radio frequency ion source has been developed to understand the relation between antenna coil heat loadings and plasma production/transport processes. From the calculation, the local plasma density increase is observed in the region close to the antenna coil. Electrons are magnetized by the magnetic field line with absolute magnetic flux density 30-120 Gauss which leads to high local ionization rate. The results suggest that modification of magnetic configuration can be made to reduce plasma heat flux onto the antenna. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Determination of discharge parameters via OES at the Linac4 H− ion source ENDTITLE Determination of discharge parameters via OES at the Linac4 H− ion source ENDTITLES Optical emission spectroscopy (OES) measurements of the atomic Balmer series and the molecular Fulcher transition have been carried out at the Linac4 ion source in order to determine plasma parameters. As the spectroscopic system was only relatively calibrated, the data evaluation only yielded rough estimates of the plasma parameters (Te ≈ 1.2 eV, ne ≈ 1 × 1019 m−3, and n H/nH2 ≈ 0.5 at standard operational parameters). The analysis of the Fulcher transition revealed a non-thermal “hockey-stick” rotational population of the hydrogen molecules. At varying RF power, the measurements at the on-axis line of sight (LOS) showed a peak in the rotational temperatures between 25 and 40 kW of RF power, whereas a steady decrease with power was observed at a tilted LOS, indicating the presence of strong plasma parameter gradients. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Analysis of electron energy distribution function in the Linac4 H− source ENDTITLE Analysis of electron energy distribution function in the Linac4 H− source ENDTITLES To understand the Electron Energy Distribution Function (EEDF) in the Radio Frequency Inductively Coupled Plasmas (RF-ICPs) in hydrogen negative ion sources, the detailed analysis of the EEDFs using numerical simulation and the theoretical approach based on Boltzmann equation has been performed. It is shown that the EEDF of RF-ICPs consists of two parts, one is the low energy part which obeys Maxwellian distribution and the other is high energy part deviated from Maxwellian distribution. These simulation results have been confirmed to be reasonable by the analytical approach. The results suggest that it is possible to enhance the dissociation of molecules and the resultant H− negative ion production by reducing the gas pressure. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
OPC Unified Architecture within the Control System of the ATLAS Experiment ENDTITLES The Detector Control System (DCS) of the ATLAS experiment at the LHC has been using the OPC DA standard as an interface for controlling various standard and custom hardware components and their integration into the SCADA layer. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Effect of Coulomb collision on the negative ion extraction mechanism in negative ion sources ENDTITLE Effect of Coulomb collision on the negative ion extraction mechanism in negative ion sources ENDTITLES To improve the H− ion beam optics, it is necessary to understand the energy relaxation process of surface produced H− ions in the extraction region of Cs seeded H− ion sources. Coulomb collisions of charged particles have been introduced to the 2D3V-PIC (two dimension in real space and three dimension in velocity space particle-in-cell) model for the H− extraction by using the binary collision model. Due to Coulomb collision, the lower energy part of the ion energy distribution function of H− ions has been greatly increased. The mean kinetic energy of the surface produced H− ions has been reduced to 0.65 eV from 1.5 eV. It has been suggested that the beam optics of the extracted H− ion beam is strongly affected by the energy relaxation process due to Coulomb collision. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Studies of the beam extraction system of the GTS-LHC electron cyclotron resonance ion source at CERN ENDTITLE Studies of the beam extraction system of the GTS-LHC electron cyclotron resonance ion source at CERN ENDTITLES The 14.5 GHz GTS-LHC Electron Cyclotron Resonance Ion Source (ECRIS) provides multiply charged heavy ion beams for the CERN experimental program. The GTS-LHC beam formation has been studied extensively with lead, argon, and xenon beams with varied beam extraction conditions using the ion optical code IBSimu. The simulation model predicts self-consistently the formation of triangular and hollow beam structures which are often associated with ECRIS ion beams, as well as beam loss patterns which match the observed beam induced markings in the extraction region. These studies provide a better understanding of the properties of the extracted beams and a way to diagnose the extraction system performance and limitations, which is otherwise challenging due to the lack of direct diagnostics in this region and the limited availability of the ion source for development work ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Evaluation of Young’s modulus of MgB2 filaments in composite wires for the superconducting links for the high-luminosity LHC upgrade ENDTITLE Evaluation of Young’s modulus of MgB2filaments in composite wires for the superconducting links for the high-luminosity LHC upgrade ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Electromechanical behaviour of REBCO tape lap splices under transverse compressive loading ENDTITLE Electromechanical behaviour of REBCO tape lap splices under transverse compressive loading ENDTITLES We have studied the influence of transverse compressive stress on the resistance and critical current (I c ) of soldered REBCO tape lap splices. Internal contact resistances dominate the overall REBCO lap splice resistances. Application of transverse compressive stress up to 250 MPa during the resistance measurements does not alter the resistance and I c of the soldered REBCO splices that were studied. The resistance of unsoldered REBCO tape lap splices depends strongly on the contact pressure. At a transverse compressive stress of 100 MPa, to which Roebel cables are typically exposed in high field magnets, the crossover splice contact resistance is comparable to the internal tape resistances. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Finite BRST Mapping in Higher-Derivative Models ENDTITLE Finite BRST Mapping in Higher-Derivative Models ENDTITLES We continue the study of finite field-dependent BRST (FFBRST) symmetry in the quantum theory of gauge fields. An expression for the Jacobian of path integral measure is presented, depending on a finite field-dependent parameter, and the FFBRST symmetry is then applied to a number of well-established quantum gauge theories in a form which incudes higher-derivative terms. Specifically, we examine the corresponding versions of the Maxwell theory, non-Abelian vector field theory, and gravitation theory. We present a systematic mapping between different forms of gauge-fixing, including those with higherderivative terms, for which these theories have better renormalization properties. In doing so, we also provide the independence of the S-matrix from a particular gauge-fixing with higher derivatives. Following this method, a higherderivative quantum action can be constructed for any gauge theory in the FFBRST framework. ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Electro-mechanical characterization of MgB2 wires for the Superconducting Link Project at CERN ENDTITLE Electro-mechanical characterization of MgB2wires for the Superconducting Link Project at CERN ENDTITLES In previous years, the R & D program between CERN and Columbus Superconductors SpA led to the development of several configurations of MgB2 wires. The aim was to achieve excellent superconducting properties in high-current MgB2 cables for the HL-LHC upgrade. In addition to good electrical performance, the superconductor shall have good mechanical strength in view of the stresses during operation (Lorenz forces and thermal contraction) and handling (tension and bending) during cabling and installation at room temperature. Thus, the study of the mechanical properties of MgB2 wires is crucial for the cable design and its functional use. In the present work we report on the electro-mechanical characterization of ex situ processed composite MgB2 wires. Tensile tests (critical current versus strain) were carried out at 4.2 K and in a 3 T external field by means of a purpose-built bespoke device to determine the irreversible strain limit of the wire. The minimum bending radius of the wire was calculated taking into account the dependence of the critical current with the strain and it was then used to obtain the minimum twist pitch of MgB2 wires in the cable. Strands extracted from cables having different configurations were tested to quantify the critical current degradation. The Young's modulus of the composite wire was measured at room temperature. Finally, all measured mechanical parameters will be used to optimize an 18-strand MgB2 cable configuration. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Evaluation of critical current density and residual resistance ratio limits in powder in tube Nb3Sn conductors ENDTITLE Evaluation of critical current density and residual resistance ratio limits in powder in tube Nb3Sn conductors ENDTITLES High critical current density (J c) Nb3Sn A15 multifilamentary wires require a large volume fraction of small grain (SG), superconducting A15 phase, as well as Cu stabilizer with high Residual Resistance Ratio (RRR) to provide electromagnetic stabilization and protection. In powder-in-tube (PIT) wires the unreacted Nb7.5 wt%Ta outer layer of the tubular filaments acts as a diffusion barrier and protects the interfilamentary Cu stabilizer from Sn contamination. A high RRR requirement generally imposes a restricted A15 reaction heat treatment to prevent localized full reaction of the filament that could allow Sn to reach the Cu. In this study we investigate recent high quality PIT wires that achieve a J c (12 T, 4.2 K) up to ~2500 A mm−2 and find that the minimum diffusion barrier thickness decreases as the filament aspect ratio increases from ~1 in the inner rings of filaments to 1.3 in the outer filament rings. We found that just 2–3 diffusion barrier breaches can degrade RRR from 300 to 150 or less. Using progressive etching of the Cu we also found that the RRR degradation is localized near the external filaments where deformation is highest. Consequently minimizing filament distortion during strand fabrication is important for reducing RRR degradation. The additional challenge of developing the highest possible J c must be addressed by forming the maximum fraction of high J c SG A15 and minimizing low J c large-grain (LG) A15 morphologies. In one wire we found that 15% of the filaments had a significantly enhanced SG/LG A15 ratio and no residual A15 in the core, a feature that opens a path to substantial J c improvement. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Cross-section fluctuations in chaotic scattering systems ENDTITLE Cross-Section Fluctuations in Chaotic Scattering Systems ENDTITLE Cross-section fluctuations in chaotic scattering systems ENDTITLES Exact analytical expressions for the cross-section correlation functions of chaotic scattering sys- tems have hitherto been derived only under special conditions. The objective of the present article is to provide expressions that are applicable beyond these restrictions. The derivation is based on a statistical model of Breit-Wigner type for chaotic scattering amplitudes which has been shown to describe the exact analytical results for the scattering (S)-matrix correlation functions accurately. Our results are given in the energy and in the time representations and apply in the whole range from isolated to overlapping resonances. The S-matrix contributions to the cross-section correla- tions are obtained in terms of explicit irreducible and reducible correlation functions. Consequently, the model can be used for a detailed exploration of the key features of the cross-section correlations and the underlying physical mechanisms. In the region of isolated resonances, the cross-section correlations contain a dominant contribution from the self-correlation term. For narrow states the self-correlations originate predominantly from widely spaced states with exceptionally large partial width. In the asymptotic region of well-overlapping resonances, the cross-section autocorrelation functions are given in terms of the S-matrix autocorrelation functions. For inelastic correlations, in particular, the Ericson fluctuations rapidly dominate in that region. Agreement with known analytical and with experimental results is excellent. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Double Dalitz plot analysis of flavor and CP modes ENDTITLES We use the CLEO-c 281.1 pb-1 of psi(3770) data to study the structure of the D0 → K0S pi+pi- Dalitz plot. Given the luminosity and sigma(DD) we have 1011960 correlated DD pairs. We analyze the case where both D's decay to three body decay modes. We analyze the two correlated Dalitz plots and show how this method increases sensitivity to effects of quantum correlations. We present two different studies. One is the Flavor tag analysis, where we reconstruct D 0 → K-pi+pi 0 and D0 → K0S pi+pi-. This was used to test our sensitivity to Doubly Cabibbo Suppressed (DCS) terms. We find that, if we ignore the DCS terms, the results differ from the CLEO II.V model by as much as 4sigma. Thus, in Flavor tags, we see evidence for enhancement of DCS terms through quantum correlations. The other study is the Combo tag analysis where both D's are reconstructed to K0S pi+pi-. This mode entangles both Flavor and CP. We construct a correlated Probability Distribution Function (PDF), and it is built on the CLEO II.V model for the D0 → K0S pi+pi- Dalitz plot. We find that with low statistics, 180 compared to 5305 events, we are able to reproduce the CLEO II.V analysis within errors. However, we do find one significant difference in the amplitude of the f2(1270). Also, the significance level, our goodness of fit, indicates that the CLEO II.V model has 0.4% significance. Between the f2(1270) discrepancy and the low significance level, we conclude that the CLEO II.V model is insufficient for our correlated data. We conclude that the quantum correlations in our data have a significant effect on our data. Our Flavor tag data indicates we are more sensitive to DCS terms than uncorrelated data. Our Combo tag data indicates that we see differences between our correlated data and CLEO II.V's uncorrelated data. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
The Inverse Puzzle in Particle Physics ENDTITLES In this thesis, I present my attempts to address the Inverse Puzzle in particle physics, i.e., the challenges associated with determining the phenomenological implications of experimental data. In particular, this thesis discusses (1) the limitations of measuring the mass of dark matter at the LHC, (2) new methods for searching for heavy neutrinos, (3) relationships between lepton- and baryon-number violating processes from the perspective of grand unified theories, (4) possible indications of connections between dark matter and lepton flavor, and (5) the possibility of observing additional sources of CP-invariance violation at neutrino oscillation experiments. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Search for CP Violation through the $D_s^+ \to K^- K^+ K^+$ decay in the LHCb Experiment ENDTITLES This dissertation aims to report the search for charge-parity (CP) violation in the singly-Cabibbo-suppressed decay $D_s^+ \to K^- K^+ K^+$ at the LHCb Experiment (CERN). According to the Standard Model, direct CP violating asymmetries in charm decays can occur but only up to the order of 10$^{-3}$ or less. If asymmetries at the percent level are found, new CP violation mechanisms beyond the Standard Model are necessary. A model- independent technique known as the Mirandizing method is performed to look for local charge asymmetries in the phase space (the so-called Dalitz plot), of the decay Ds` Ñ K ́K`K`. Our final data sample consists of over 50 thousand events collected in 2012 by the LHCb experiment from proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 8 TeV. This is the first time that such analysis is performed to this channel. To guarantee that no nuisance asymmetries appear due to other sources such as background, production or detection effects, the study is first performed to the mass sidebands of the signal as well as to two control channels, D` Ñ K ́π`π` and Ds` Ñ K ́K`π`, for which no CP violating asymmetries are expected since they are Cabibbo-favored decays. We then analyze the signal sample to find that, under the current statistics, there is no sign of CP violation in the $D_s^+ \to K^- K^+ K^+$ decay. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Electro-strong interaction ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Accelerated detector response function in squeezed vacuum ENDTITLE Accelerated Detector Response Function in Squeezed Vacuum ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Experimental set-up for asymmetry measurements in the elastic scattering at small angles (<10°) of 40 MeV polarized protons ENDTITLE Experimental set-up for asymmetry measurements in the elastic scattering at small angles (<10°) of 40 MeV polarized protons ENDTITLES An experimental set-up based on the use of a magnetostrictive read-out wire spark chamber is described. It has been used for the measurement of the asymmetry between 0° and 10° in the elastic scattering of 40 MeV polarized protons. It is characterized by a high angular resolution and allows to know the distribution of the protons in the incident beam. Details on the use of the magnetostrictive delay lines are given. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Sideband cooling of ions in a non-neutral buffer gas ENDTITLE Sideband cooling of ions in a non-neutral buffer gas ENDTITLES We have investigated an extension of the buffer gas cooling technique to a non-neutral buffer gas. The proposed scheme will allow efficient mass-selective centering of ions confined in a Penning trap in situations where the use of a neutral damping agent is not possible. The present paper reviews the principle of the technique and reports on evidence for sideband cooling of antiprotons in an electron gas, obtained with the ATHENA apparatus at CERN’s Antiproton Decelerator facility. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Fast calculation of Vavilov distribution ENDTITLE Fast calculation of Vavilov distribution ENDTITLES New algorithms for the rapid calculation of the Vavilov energy straggling distribution are presented, of accuracy high enough for standard Monte Carlo applications. The average sampling time is about a factor of 6 lower than that obtained with other existing routines in current use. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Фазовые переходы под влиянием внешних условий в низкоразмерных моделях теории поля ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Recent developments in fusion and direct reactions with weakly bound nuclei ENDTITLE Recent developments in fusion and direct reactions with weakly bound nuclei ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Elastic scattering and fusion cross-sections in 7Li + 27Al reaction ENDTITLE Elastic scattering and fusion cross-sections in 7Li + 27Al reaction ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Effect of neutron transfer channels in fusion reactions with weakly bound nuclei at subbarrier energies ENDTITLE Effect of neutron transfer channels in fusion reactions with weakly bound nuclei at subbarrier energies ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Effect of neutron transfer in the fusion process near and below the Coulomb barrier ENDTITLE Effect of neutron transfer in the fusion process near and below the Coulomb barrier ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Analysis of fusion excitation functions for reactions induced by 6Li at near barrier energies ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Dynamics of [sup 6]Li+[sup 152]Sm→[sup 158]Tb∗ reaction across the Coulomb barrier ENDTITLE Dynamics of [sup 6]Li+[sup 152]Sm→[sup 158]Tb∗ reaction across the Coulomb barrier ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Dynamics of light, intermediate, heavy and superheavy nuclear systems formed in heavy-ion collisions ENDTITLE Dynamics of light, intermediate, heavy and superheavy nuclear systems formed in heavy-ion collisions ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Three family oscillations with a Neutrino Factory ENDTITLES Data from atmospheric and solar neutrinos indicate that there are at least three neutrino types involved in oscillation phenomena. Even if the corresponding neutrino mass scales are very different, the inevitable reference to mixing between more than two neutrino types has profound consequences on the planning of the accelerator experiments suggested by these results. We discuss the measurement of mixing angles and CP phases in the context of the neutrino beam emanating from a neutrino factory: the straight sections of a muon storage ring. We emphasize the importance of charge identification. The appearance of wrong sign muons in a long baseline experiment may provide a powerful test of neutrino oscillations in the mass difference range indicated by atmospheric neutrino observations. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Search for $D^0 - \bar{D}^0$ Mixing at CLEO ENDTITLES The CLEO collaboration has measured the rate and mean lifetime of the "wrong sign" decay $D^0 \to K^+ \pi^-$ and used this to extract a limit on $D^0 - \bar{D}^0$ mixing using 5.6 fb$^{-1}$ of data. Since the first CLEO measurement of this rate was made back in 1993, the CLEO detector [1] was upgraded to include a silicon vertex detector [2]. Using lifetime information provided by this device, we can disentangle the doubly Cabibbo suppresesed and $D^0 - \bar{D}^0$ mixing components of this rate. Analyses using the channels $D^0 \to K^+ \ell^- \bar{\nu}_{\ell}$, $D^0 \to K^+ \pi^- \pi^0$, and $D^0 \to K^+ \pi^- \pi^+ \pi^-$ are underway at CLEO and may significantly improve the sensitivity. Furthermore, by measuring the lifetimes of $D^0$ decaying to CP eigenstates such as $K^+ \K^-$, $\pi^+ \pi^-$, $K_s \phi$, we can independently determine the less calculable on-shell component of the mixing. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Infrastructure performance and utilization: TASD and MIND are constructed and tested for their performance ENDTITLES Two prototype neutrino detectors based on plastic scintillators are presented in this deliverable report D8.11 for the AIDA project. The Totally Active Scintillator Detector (TASD) is fully operational on the MICE beam line at RAL where it measures muon sample purity since October 2013. A new magnetization scheme is proposed for the Magnetized Iron Neutrino Detector (MIND) improving charge identification efficiencies for muons with momenta < 1 GeV/c. Extensive tests of MIND detector components are presented. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Finite Inflation, Holography, and Dark Matter Annihilation ENDTITLES This thesis covers work on theoretical cosmology relating to inflation, de Sitter space, dark matter annihilation, and holography. A unifying feature of all these topics is that all of them occur in de Sitter space or focus on epochs of the Universe when the spacetime was close to de Sitter and that all of them have some connection to holography. Chapter 1 provides a pedagogical introduction to the fundamentals of cosmology, inflation, de Sitter space, dark matter annihilation and entanglement entropy. Chapter 2 covers the impact on the causal entropic principle of dark matter annihilation that we find to have the greatest relevance at late times in the future when the dark energy has driven the universe to be asymptotically de Sitter. In this chapter we estimate holographically preferred dark matter properties for a range of assumptions. Chapter 3 covers holographic bounds in models of finite inflation, specifically the Banks-Fischler bound [3] and de Sitter equilibrium [4–6]. The assumptions in each of these models are explored in detail and some interesting new connections are presented. Chapter 4 tests models of inflation with a fast-roll start that happen to satisfy the holographic bounds in Chapter 3 against cosmic microwave background data from Planck. We find a slight preference for a feature at the scale predicted in [3] though this preference is not found to be statistically significant. Chapter 5 contains a numerical computation of the holographic mutual information for an annular configuration of regions on a conformal field theory in de Sitter space using the AdS/CFT correspondence. This computation shows that the de Sitter space CFT entanglement entropy matches what would be expected from a Minkowski CFT and shows that the HRT conjecture works for this case. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
The Universal Coefficient Theorem and Black Holes ENDTITLE The Universal Coefficient Theorem and Black Holes ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Exploratory growth in the Li2MoO4-MoO3 system for the next crystal generation of heat-scintillation cryogenic bolometers ENDTITLE Exploratory growth in the Li2MoO4-MoO3 system for the next crystal generation of heat-scintillation cryogenic bolometers ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Geometry and solid angle corrections for accurate measurement of multipole and parity mixing ratios using nuclear orientation ENDTITLE Geometry and solid angle corrections for accurate measurement of multipole and parity mixing ratios using nuclear orientation ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Influence of injected interstitials on α′ precipitation in Fe–Cr alloys under self-ion irradiation ENDTITLE Influence of injected interstitials on α′ precipitation in Fe–Cr alloys under self-ion irradiation ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
The AME2016 atomic mass evaluation (I). Evaluation of input data; and adjustment procedures ENDTITLE The AME2016 atomic mass evaluation (I). Evaluation of input data; and adjustment procedures ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
The AME2016 atomic mass evaluation (II). Tables, graphs and references ENDTITLE The AME2016 atomic mass evaluation (II). Tables, graphs and references ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Toward lifetime and g factor measurements of short-lived states in the vicinity of 208Pb ENDTITLE Toward lifetime and g factor measurements of short-lived states in the vicinity of 208Pb ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Quasi-elastic backscattering of 6,7Li on light, medium and heavy targets at near- and sub-barrier energies ENDTITLE Quasi-elastic backscattering of 6,7Li on light, medium and heavy targets at near- and sub-barrier energies ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
A three - body classical dynamics model for study of effect of weakly bound projectile breakup on heavy - ion fusion ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Systematic results of fusion, total reaction cross sections and breakup threshold anomaly with weakly bound nuclei at near barrier energies ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Study of Break - up threshold anomaly in 6,7 Li + 116 Sn system: A dispersion relation analysis ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Study of Transfer angular distribution of 10,11 B + 232 Th systems ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Elastic scattering induced by halo nuclei ENDTITLE Elastic scattering induced by halo nuclei ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Phenomenological and microscopic analysis of elastic scattering reactions: 9Be+27Al new results ENDTITLE Phenomenological and microscopic analysis of elastic scattering reactions: 9Be+27Al new results ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
SUPERSYMMETRIC PARTICLE PRODUCTION AT POST-LHC PROTON-PROTON COLLIDERS ENDTITLES In this thesis, I study cross sections for production of supersymmetric particles at next-to- leading order (NLO) in perturbation theory in quantum chromodynamics (QCD) at proton- proton colliders. Supersymmetry as a theory aims to correct shortcomings of the current Standard Model of particle physics, and while supersymmetry has not been confirmed at the Large Hadron Collider, proposed higher energy colliders may hold the key to discovering particles fundamental to the theory and confirming its validity. This analysis focused on supersymmetric particle production at future proton-proton colliders, given current mass constraints from the Large Hadron Collider in conjunction with future collider energies cur- rently under proposal. Analysis utilized the Prospino2 software to calculate cross sections of event production for these particles at next-to-leading order accuracy as a function of center of mass energy, which was varied continuously between 7 and 100 TeV, as well as probing a wide range of supersymmetric parameter space and testing mass dependence between pa- rameters with continuously varying masses at several fixed energies. Specific particles for which event production cross sections are calculated are gluinos, squarks (including stops), sleptons, charginos, and neutralinos. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
MODOS QUASE-NORMAIS E A CORRESPONDÊNCIA ADS/CFT ENDTITLES The electromagnetic and gravitational quasinormal mode spectra of plane-symmetric anti-de Sitter black holes are investigated in the present work. According to the AdS/CFT correspondence, the black hole quasinormal frequencies correspond to the poles of R-current and stress-energy tensor correlation functions in the holographically dual field theory: the N = 8 super-Yang-Mills in 2 + 1 dimensions. In the present study, this duality is explored in order to choose the quasinormal mode boundary conditions and the gauge invariant variables governing the black hole perturbations. Among the main results, it is shown that zero wavenumber axial perturbations yield only small rotations on the system, while the polar perturbations lead to a change in the mass of the black hole and may also produce cylindrical gravitational waves. In relation to the quasinormal spectra, the long-distance and low-frequency limit of the dispersion relations present the hydrodynamical behavior that is characteristic of a conformally invariant theory, with diffusion, shear and sound-wave modes. In the electromagnetic perturbation sector, it also appears purely damped modes that tend to the bosonic Matsubara frequencies in the long-wavelength regime. ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Applications of Holography to Strongly Coupled Hydrodynamics ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Muon Detector-Description as-built and its Simulation for the ATLAS Experiment ENDTITLE Muon Detector-Description as-built and its Simulation for the ATLAS Experiment ENDTITLES Abstract: The ATLAS detector at CERN is designed to fully exploit the physics potential of the LHC by providing precision measurements of the mass and identification of particles emerging from high-energy proton-proton collisions. The ATLAS Muon Spectrometer is a large and complex system, comprising Monitored Drift Tubes (MDT), Cathode Strip Chambers (CSC), Resistive Plate Chambers (RPC), and Thin Gap Chambers (TGC). These systems are described in the software using a set of geometrical primitives, called GeoModel, which constructs a transient model from primary parameters, called AMDB, stored in the detector description database. The model provides a single interface to the GEANT4 simulation, event reconstruction, and trigger software. In the present note we describe the current status of the ATLAS Muon Spectrometer simulation, the geometry software, placing an emphasis on the achievement of realistic effects recently implemented to take into account the detector as-built. A first evaluation of as-built geometry in the simulation on the Spectrometer performance and on the physics observable is also discussed. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Extraindo a fase $\gamma$ de CKM nos decaimentos $B^{\pm} K^{\pm} \pi^+ \pi^-$ e $B^0, \bar{B}^0 \to K_S \pi^+ \pi^-$ ENDTITLES The Charge-Parity (CP) symmetry violation is implemented in the Standard Model by the prescense of a complex phase in the Cabibbo-Kobayashi-Maskawa matrix. The violation magnitude is quantified in the $\alpha$, $\beta$ and $\gamma$ angles, where only $\beta$ is precisely known at present days. The LHCb experiment, in construction phase, has among it's objectives the measurement of $\alpha$ and $\gamma$ angles. In the dissertation we propose a new method for $\gamma$ extraction, using $B^{\pm} K^{\pm} \pi^+ \pi^-$ and $B^0, \bar{B}^0 \to K_S \pi^+ \pi^-$ intermediary state interferences in a combined analysis. Withe the LHCb simulation, we estimate the annual yield for these channels. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Estudo de Sistemas de Nucleos Exoticos Leves 6He,7Be + 9Be ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Recent results with radioactive ion beams in Brasil (RIBRAS) ENDTITLE Recent results with radioactive ion beams in Brasil (RIBRAS) ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Extraindo a fase $\gamma$ de CKM nos decaimentos $B \to K \pi \pi$ no experimento LHCb ENDTITLES Apresentamos nessa tese a proposta de um novo método para a medida do ângulo gamma da matriz de Cabibbo-Kobayashi-Maskawa, o estudo da viabilidade de sua implementação no experimento LHCb e descrevemos a implementação do trigger topológico, uma importante contribuição ao experimento. O método explora a interferência dos estados intermediários na análise combinada dos decaimentos B+->Kpipi e B0->Kspipi. A análise de B0 utiliza uma nova técnica de ajuste misto que evita a necessidade de tagging. Com a simulação computacional do LHCb, realizamos um estudo completo da performance desses canais, estimando o número de eventos obtidos em um ano, poluição por background e deformação no espaço de fase. Utilizando a ferramenta de Monte Carlo URCA, mostramos que para uma configuração específica de parâmetros, podemos medir gamma com erro (+- 11 +- 1) graus na estatística de 50 mil eventos de B0->Kspipi. ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Desenvolvimento de um metodo alternativo para analise do Dalitz plot do canal $D^+ \to K^- K^+ \pi^+$ ENDTITLES The violation of the charge conjugation and parity combined symmetry, or simply CP violation, is one of the necessary conditions to explain the matter-antimatter assymme- try. The Standard Model accommodates the CP violation through a phase in the CKM (Cabibbo-Kabayashi-Maskawa) matrix. However, this mechanism is not enough to explain the observed assymmetry. New sources of CP violation are necessary. Charm decays are excellent tools in the search of this new sources because the CP violation predicted by the Standard Model in charm decays is quite small, O(10−3) or less. One of the channels used in the search for CP violation is the Cabibbo suppressed D+ → K−K+π+ decay, exploiting the 2-dimensional phase space. The standard technique for study 3-body decays is the Dalitz plot analysis. It allows to study the decay dynamics, identifying its resonants contributions. It also allows, by comparing conjugate decays, the observation of local assymmetries in the phase space. The standard technique for Dalitz plot analysis is the fit with the maximum likelihood method. In the analysis of very large samples, it faces a practical problem once the number of events leads to an exponetial increase in the required processing time. An alternative may be the binned fit with least squares method. In this work, we developed an algorithm based in this method as an alternative to the one commonly used. It is made the comparison between this method and the maximum likelihood one, determining in which conditions both of them leads to the same result. This study is made with simulated samples of D+ → K−K+π+ decay. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Massive scalar field quasinormal modes of a black hole in the deformed Hořava-Lifshitz gravity ENDTITLE Massive scalar field quasinormal modes of a black hole in the deformed Hořava-Lifshitz gravity ENDTITLES We calculated the quasinormalmodes ofmassive scalar field of a black hole in the deformed Hořava-Lifshitz gravity with coupling constant λ = 1, using the third-order WKB approximation. Our results show that when the scalar field mass increases, the oscillation frequency increases while the damping decreases. And we find that the imaginary parts are almost linearly related to the real parts, the behaviors are very similar to that in the Reissner-Nordström black hole spacetime. These information will help us understand more about the Hořava-Lifshitz gravity. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
A Gauss–Bonnet Cosmology with an Effective Time-Dependent Scalar Potential ENDTITLE A Gauss–Bonnet Cosmology with an Effective Time-Dependent Scalar Potential ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
The Radioactive Ion Beams in Brazil (RIBRAS) Facility ENDTITLE The Radioactive Ion Beams in Brazil (RIBRAS) Facility ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Classicalization and Observational signatures of cosmological fluctuations ENDTITLES Since the discovery of cosmic microwave background (CMB) predictions and measurements of this background have been improved. In this project the interaction of a quantum system, which is weakly coupled to an environment, during inflation is discussed. This environment leads to the classicalization of the quantum behavior of the initial system. The quantum system during inflation can be described by the Schwinger-Keldysh formalism together with the 2PI-formalism. In the end the self-masses are calculated, which is the first step of solving the equations of motion for the statistical propagator. These solutions could give more information over the spectrum of the CMB. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Simulação da razão de carga de múons atmosféricos na escala TeV ENDTITLES Several analysis can be performed using atmospheric muons produced in chain reactions caused by a cosmic ray particle. We can study the muon flux for different parameterizations of the atmosphere, the moon and sun shadowing effect, the muon charge ratio, etc. In this work, we are interested in the atmospheric muon charge ratio (rμ = Nμ+/Nμ−). This ratio has been observed by several experiments, for different energy ranges. The MINOS experiment has determined the muon charge ratio (rμ) in the GeV energy scale using the Near Detector and in the TeV energy scale using the Far Detector. This experiment has observed an increase of the muon charge ratio from 1.27 to 1.37 when the energy of the primary particle changed from ∼ 100 GeV to ∼ 1 TeV. This fact can be explained by the properties of the pions ( ) and the kaons (K). For higher energies, around 10 TeV, the decay of charming hadrons becomes important as a source of atmospheric leptons. Investigating the parameterization given by the Gaisser equation in order to study the intensity of positive and negative muons separately, it is possible to obtain the equation of the pion-kaon ( K) model. Using this model it was made an adjust with the of MINOS Near and Far Detector data, finding the f and fK parameters. These parameters are the fractions that contribute to the production of positive muons coming from de e K, respectively. The experimental values obtained were: f = 0.55 and fK = 0.70. In this work we simulated extensive air showers using the CORSIKA code. Different models that describe the hadronic interactions for high energy particles were used. Our goal was to verify if the models could reproduce the increase of muon charge ratio. This increase is associated with physics involving pion and kaon decays. We found the following parameters: f = 0.547 ± 0.003 and fK = 0.64 ± 0.02 for the QGSJET 01C model, f = 0.604 ± 0.003 and fK = 0.73 ± 0.02 for the SIBYLL model, f = 0.572 ± 0.003 and fK = 0.70 ± 0.02 for the VENUS model, f = 0.545 ± 0.004 and fK = 0.62 ± 0.03 for the QGSJETII model and f = 0.570 ± 0.003 and fK = 0.65 ± 0.02 for the DPMJET model. The increase of the muon charge ratio found in the MINOS data was 7.8%. In our simulation we found an increase of 3.2%, 8.3%, 5.7%, %4.0 and 2.5% for each one of the models, respectively. With these results, it was possible to observe that simulation models also show a significant increase of ratio, when we moved from scale GeV scale for TeV. And of course, this increase is characterized by properties of pions and kaons noting that physics is considered by the codes of models. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Deformed Geometries and the Gauge/Gravity Duality ENDTITLES In this thesis, we use state of the art numerical methods to study three new examples of polarized geometries with particular emphasis on their roles in the gauge/gravity duality. The gauge/gravity duality is of great theoretical interest as it allows us to relate the difficult problems of strongly cou- pled field theories with those of easier to solve space-time geometries. Of these geometries, there are few analytical examples. The numerical solutions constructed in this thesis therefore encom- pass a novel contribution to gauge/gravity duality research. In each example, we consider static and stationary solutions to the Einstein equations and perform the corresponding thermodynamic analysis resulting in a phase diagram that could be used to describe a dual field theory at strong coupling. First, we will discuss asymptotically AdS4 solutions deformed by a constant electric field. Next, we consider coupling this solution to a neutral scalar field. The resulting geometries are dual to deformed ABJM theory in three dimensions. Finally, we construct the asymptotically flat, 11 dimensional black hole solutions dual to the deconfined phase of the BMN matrix model. The BMN matrix model can be studied directly at strong coupling using Monte Carlo techniques, providing an important test of the gauge/gravity conjecture by way of our strong coupling prediction. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Holographic Tachyon in Fractal Geometry ENDTITLE Holographic Tachyon in Fractal Geometry ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Dynamical properties of scaling solutions in teleparallel dark energy cosmologies with nonminimal coupling ENDTITLE Dynamical properties of scaling solutions in teleparallel dark energy cosmologies with nonminimal coupling ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Regular Magnetic Black Hole Gravitational Lensing ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Lagrangian Coherent Structures ENDTITLE Lagrangian Coherent Structures ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
On the Phenomenology of an Accelerated Large-Scale Universe ENDTITLE On the Phenomenology of an Accelerated Large-Scale Universe ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Search for Dark Matter in the Upgraded High Luminosity LHC at CERN: Sensitivity of ATLAS phase II upgrade to dark matter production ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Covering the sphere with noncontextuality inequalities ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Hypergeometric and basic hypergeometric series and integrals associated with root systems ENDTITLE Hypergeometric and basic hypergeometric series and integrals associated with root systems ENDTITLES We give an overview of some of the main results from the theories of hypergeometric and basic hypergeometric series and integrals associated with root systems. In particular, we list a number of summations, transformations and explicit evaluations for such multiple series and integrals. We concentrate on such results which do not directly extend to the elliptic level. This text is a provisional version of a chapter on hypergeometric and basic hypergeometric series and integrals associated with root systems for volume 2 of the new Askey--Bateman project which deals with "Multivariable special functions". ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Searches for Neutrinos from Supernovae Using Cherenkov In-Ice Detectors ENDTITLES Supernovae mark the violent death of massive stars. They are among the most energetic processes known to exist in the Universe. Neutrinos play crucial roles in supernova processes. Besides the low-energy neutrinos emitted during the core-collapse process of the supernova, there may be neutrinos of much higher energies that are generated after the core-collapse. In this work, a new detector embedded in Antarctic glacier ice is studied, with sensitivity to extra-galactic supernova low-energy neutrino bursts. It is demonstrated that the development of optical sensors with large effective area and low noise rate is a requirement. For the proposed detector, several extra-galactic supernova neutrino detections per year are feasible. In addition, a multi-messenger data analysis program is carried out, which registers high-energy neutrino bursts with the IceCube detector and triggers follow-up observations with optical telescopes. No significant excess of neutrino bursts is found. Therefore, upper limits on the jet supernova model are derived. For model values of the jet Lorentz factor Γjet = 10 and the jet kinetic energy Ejet = 3 × 1051 erg, only about 8% of all core-collapse supernovae hosting a jet are consistent with the data. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Gravitational lensing STRING charged black hole in the strong-field approximation ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
A High Precision 3D Magnetic Field Scanner for Small to Medium Size Magnets ENDTITLE A High Precision 3D Magnetic Field Scanner for Small to Medium Size Magnets ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Direct Drive and Eddy Current Septa Magnet Designs for CERN's PSB Extraction at 2 GeV ENDTITLE Direct Drive and Eddy Current Septa Magnet Designs for CERN's PSB Extraction at 2 GeV ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Design and Manufacturing of a 45 kA at 10 T REBCO-CORC Cable-in-Conduit Conductor for Large-Scale Magnets ENDTITLE Design and Manufacturing of a 45 kA at 10 T REBCO-CORC Cable-in-Conduit Conductor for Large-Scale Magnets ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Development of a Roebel-cable-based cos-theta dipole: design and windability of magnet ends ENDTITLE Development of a Roebel-cable-based cos-theta dipole: design and windability of magnet ends ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Status of the Demonstrator Magnets for the EuCARD-2 Future Magnets Project ENDTITLE Status of the Demonstrator Magnets for the EuCARD-2 Future Magnets Project ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Geometrical Behavior of Nb3Sn Rutherford Cables During Heat Treatment ENDTITLE Geometrical Behavior of Nb3Sn Rutherford Cables During Heat Treatment ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
16 T Nb3Sn Racetrack Model Coil Test Result ENDTITLE 16 T Nb3Sn Racetrack Model Coil Test Result ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
On Roebel Cable Geometry for Accelerator Magnet ENDTITLE On Roebel Cable Geometry for Accelerator Magnet ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Development of Joint Terminals for a New Six-Around-One ReBCO-CORC Cable-in-Conduit Conductor Rated 45 kA at 10T/4K ENDTITLE Development of Joint Terminals for a New Six-Around-One ReBCO-CORC Cable-in-Conduit Conductor Rated 45 kA at 10T/4K ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Status of the EuCARD 5.4-T REBCO Dipole Magnet ENDTITLE Status of the EuCARD 5.4-T REBCO Dipole Magnet ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Electromagnetic Study of a Round Coil Superferric Magnet ENDTITLE Electromagnetic Study of a Round Coil Superferric Magnet ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Thermal, Hydraulic, and Electromagnetic Modeling of Superconducting Magnet Systems ENDTITLE Thermal, Hydraulic, and Electromagnetic Modeling of Superconducting Magnet Systems ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Performance Test of an 8 kA @ 10-T 4.2-K ReBCO-CORC Cable ENDTITLE Performance Test of an 8 kA @ 10-T 4.2-K ReBCO-CORC Cable ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
A rapidity-independent parameter in the star-triangle relation ENDTITLE A rapidity-independent parameter in the star-triangle relation ENDTITLES The normalization factor in the star-triangle relation can be evaluated in a simple form by taking determinants. If we combine this with the rotation symmetries, then we can show that a certain simple quantity $I$ has to be independent of the rapidities. In this sense it is an invariant. We evaluate it for several particular models and find it is one for self-dual models, and is related to the modulus $k$ (or $k'$) for the Ising, Kashiwara-Miwa and chiral Potts models. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Yang-Baxter Equations ENDTITLE Yang-Baxter Equations ENDTITLES Preprint of an Encyclopedia article (Encyclopedia of Mathematical Physics, eds. J.-P. Fran\c{c}oise, G.L. Naber and Tsou S.T., Oxford: Elsevier, 2006 (ISBN 978-0-1251-2666-3), volume 5, pages 465-473) extended with an appendix on relations of electric networks and solvable models. We welcome comments, especially on the added appendix. Please, note that the reference list has been restricted to only giving a few historical items and sources explicitly used. We apologize in advance for the many omissions. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Is the mystery of the masses of elementary particles solved? ENDTITLE Is the mystery of the masses of elementary particles solved? ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Discussion of the introduction of a new complex physical quantity (bq,m0) into physics ENDTITLE Discussion of the introduction of a new complex physical quantity (bq,m0) into physics ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Description of a new metric ENDTITLE Description of a new metric ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
The QCAL tile calorimeter of KLOE ENDTITLE The QCAL tile calorimeter of KLOE ENDTITLES The QCAL tile calorimeters of KLOE are two compact detectors placed close to the interaction point and surrounding the focalization quadrupoles. Their purpose is to increase the hermeticity of KLOE calorimetry, improving the rejection of background KL→π0π0π0 decays, whose photon energies range from 20 to 280 MeV. Each QCAL consists of a sampling structure of lead plates and 1 mm scintillator tiles arranged in 16 azimuthal sectors, with readout via wavelength shifter (WLS) and mesh photomultipliers. The readout of WLS fibers from both sides allows measuring the longitudinal position and time of the showers from TOF. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Lightweight CFRP spherical mirrors for the LHCb RICH-1 detector ENDTITLE Lightweight CFRP spherical mirrors for the LHCb RICH-1 detector ENDTITLES The design, manufacture and testing of lightweight Carbon Fiber Reinforced Polymer (CFRP) converging spherical mirrors for the RICH-1 Cherenkov detector of LHCb are described. The mirrors have low areal density to minimize the amount of material in the path of traversing particles and need to be fluorocarbon compatible to avoid degradation in the C4F10 radiator gas. The total area is about 2m2 and high reflectivity (typically 90%) over the wavelength range 200-600nm is required. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
The Phenix Experiment ENDTITLE The Phenix Experiment ENDTITLES The PHENIX experiment at RHIC is currently under construction with data collection planned to start in 1999. The heavy ion and spin physics goals of PHENIX are described. We discuss the experiment’s capabilities to address these physics goals. Highlights of the present status of construction and installation are presented. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Mr. ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Entropy function for the teleparallel Kaluza-Klein reduction ENDTITLE Entropy function for the teleparallel Kaluza-Klein reduction ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Investigation of the Electromagnetic Radiation Emitted by Sub-GeV Electrons in a Bent Crystal ENDTITLE Investigation of the Electromagnetic Radiation Emitted by Sub-GeV Electrons in a Bent Crystal ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Radiation generated by single and multiple volume reflection of ultrarelativistic electrons and positrons in bent crystals ENDTITLE Radiation generated by single and multiple volume reflection of ultrarelativistic electrons and positrons in bent crystals ENDTITLES Recently discovered processes of volume reflection and multiple volume reflection of charged particles in bent crystals are accompanied by specific electromagnetic (e.m.) radiation. The mechanism of radiation emission is quite complex due to the coexistence of different regimes for particle dynamics, resulting in e.m. generation with features characteristic of each regime. We present a simulation taking into consideration both the nondipole nature and arbitrary multiplicity of radiation accompanying volume reflection. This approach is worked out for electrons or positrons of any energy and is based on the local straight-crystal approximation and Baier-Katkov formula for radiation, the integration of which is considerably facilitated by the fast Fourier transform method. The radiation generated by multiple volume reflection with vertical and skew planes has been studied, too. A large axial contribution to the hard part of the radiative energy loss spectrum as well as the strengthening of planar radiation, with respect to the single volume reflection case, in the soft part of the spectrum are demonstrated. Both the wide spectrum and high intensity make this type of radiation quite suitable for the conversion of electron and positron beams to hard γ radiation. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Study of anticlastic deformation in a silicon crystal for channeling experiments ENDTITLE Study of anticlastic deformation in a silicon crystal for channeling experiments ENDTITLES Anticlastic deformation (AD) is an established mechanical property of isotropic solid bodies, which has been recently used to steer particle beams through channeling in Si crystals. An analysis of AD in an anisotropic material, such as Si, has been worked out with particular emphasis to the cases used in channeling experiments. Both a theoretical model and finite element simulations were developed and compared to experimental data achieved by optical profilometry on bent Si crystals. A quantifier of the extent of AD, namely the ratio between primary and secondary curvature radii, has been found to be orientation dependent and determined analytically. The realistic case of crystal bending by a mechanical holder has been studied for applications. We addressed the case of the holder with a crystal at the energy currently under operation in the CERN super proton synchrotron and its possible extension to higher energy cases such as for the large hadron collider. Anisotropy-driven torsion of the crystal was investigated, determining a limitation to the portion of the crystal suitable for channeling. The geometry of the jaws clamping the crystal was considered too. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Highly bent (110) Ge crystals for efficient steering of ultrarelativistic beams ENDTITLE Highly bent (110) Ge crystals for efficient steering of ultrarelativistic beams ENDTITLES A holder to lodge and bend a silicon crystal to excite multivolume reflection of a high-energy particle beam has been designed and fabricated. A mechanically robust and stable structure fastens a crystal at best condition for experiments. The holder has allowed the observation of 12-time repeated volume reflection with very high efficiency. We detail the most important features behind the construction of the holder together with the characterization of the crystal being bent by the holder. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Inflationary cosmology for f(R,Φ) models with different potentials ENDTITLE Inflationary cosmology for f(R,Φ) models with different potentials ENDTITLES We examine inflation in f(R,Φ)-theory, where scalar field is coupled to gravity. We have constructed the Rf(Φ) models using exponential and power law potentials and study inflation for these models which can support the early-time acceleration with a useful cosmological constant at high curvature. We have calculated the slow-roll parameters, scalar-to-tensor ratio and spectral index for these models and analyzed them graphically to check the viability according to recent observational data. We have also presented the evolution of effective equation of state and energy density. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Aspects of Supergravity Compactifications and SCFT correlators ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
BPS states in Supersymmetric Gauge Theories ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Modified Gravity with Vector Distortion and Cosmological Applications ENDTITLE Modified Gravity with Vector Distortion and Cosmological Applications ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Правила сумм КХД и эффективная теория тяжелого кварка [Pravila summ KKhD i èffektivnaya teoriya tyazhelogo kvarka] ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Probe station for testing of ALICE silicon drift detectors ENDTITLE Probe station for testing of ALICE silicon drift detectors ENDTITLES Large area, 7.25cm×8.76cm silicon drift detectors have been developed and are in production for the ALICE experiment at LHC. An active area of the detector of more than 50cm2 imposes high demands on the quality of processing and raw material. Automated testing procedures have been developed to test detectors before mounting them on the ladders. Probe stations for ALICE SDD testing were designed and built at INFN, Trieste and Ohio State University (OSU). Testing procedures, detector selection criteria and some details of the OSU probe station design are discussed. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
The right inverse of Dirac operator in octonionic space ENDTITLE The right inverse of Dirac operator in octonionic space ENDTITLES The octonion Dirac equation also called wave equation is an important equation which formulates the localization spaces for subluminal and superluminal particles. The purpose of this paper is to look for the right inverse operator of octonion Dirac operator in Holder space. However, some difficulties will arise in noncommutative and nonassociative setting. We note that the associator is available to overcome the difficulties. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Device simulation of the ALICE silicon drift detector ENDTITLE Device simulation of the ALICE silicon drift detector ENDTITLES Large-area linear silicon drift detectors will equip the third and fourth layers of the inner tracking system of the ALICE experiment. During the R&D phase of this sensor, an extensive work of simulation has been carried out in order, first, to determine, and, subsequently, to refine its design. In this paper we present this work giving a detailed description of the characteristics of each building block. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
High Yield of Low-Energy Pions from a High-Energy Primary Proton Beam ENDTITLE High Yield of Low-Energy Pions from a High-Energy Primary Proton Beam ENDTITLES We present the results of the first measurement on the yield of pions with momentum smaller than 220 MeV/c, produced by a 300 GeV/c proton beam. The measurements, performed at the CERN super proton synchrotron using tungsten production targets of different lengths, are discussed referring to the possibility of extending to high-energy laboratories the access to fundamental research involving low-energy pions and muons. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
The non-commutative geometry on the compactification of matrix model ENDTITLES We review brieflly the main lines of the toroidal compactification of the IKKT model. This study, which is also valid for the BFSS matrix theory, allow us to give a reformulation of the defining constraint equation of Banks et al, useful when we showing the compactification on S2 and F0. ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Muon ionisation cooling experiment: The design and implementation of the Geometry Handling System and characterising of the EMR's scintillating bars ENDTITLES This thesis describes the Muon Ionisation Cooling Experiment (MICE), an engineering demonstration of the technique of ionisation cooling. It provides a detailed description of the creation of a Geometry Handling System that has been written as part of the MICE Analysis User Software and its benefits in providing a flexible and accurate method to model the MICE experiment. Finally the results of the bench tests of the Electron Muon Ranger will be presented. MICE is part of an international programme to provide the technology for the Neutrino Factory (NF). The NF requires the technology to; capture the muons from a pion beam; cool them to form a high intensity beam with a small emittance; and accelerate the resulting muons. The decay of the resulting monochromatic muon beam produces a neutrino beam with precisely defjned flavour content and an accurately calculable energy spectrum. The μ beam's intensity and collimation is sufficiently high to allow experiments to be performed with a baseline of several thousand km. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Semi-leptonic Decays on the Lattice ENDTITLES This thesis describes a lattice calculation of the matrix elements of the vector and axial-vector currents which are relevant to the semi-leptonic decays $D \to K$ and $D \to K^*$. The simulation was performed in the quenched approximation to lattice QCD on a 24$^3$ x 48 space-time lattice at $\beta$ = 6.2, using an 0(a)-improved fermionic action ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Konstruowanie generatora oddziaływań neutrin ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
MICE scintillating-fibre tracker: First progress report ENDTITLES The design of the scintillating-fibre tracker for the international Muon Ionisation Cooling Experiment (MICE) is reviewed. The first prototype of the MICE tracker was constructed over the summer of 2003. This report presents the design and construction of the prototype and the commissioning of the device in the DØ VLPC test stand at Fermilab. The active element of the tracker is constructed from 350 $\mu$m diameter scintillating fibre. The measured light yield in the prototype was 10.6 $\pm$ 0.2 photoelectrons and the measured resolution and efficiency met the specification. Results of the full tracking system proposed for MICE are presented and demonstrate that the system is capable of measuring the relative change in emittance with a precision of 1%. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Generalized Harmonic Analysis of Computed and Measured Magnetic Fields ENDTITLE Generalized Harmonic Analysis of Computed and Measured Magnetic Fields ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Dynamical Models of a Wire Scanner ENDTITLE Dynamical Models of a Wire Scanner ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
The X-ray machine for the examination of quantum mechanics ENDTITLE The X-ray machine for the examination of quantum mechanics ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
A modified two-slit interferometer for characterizing the asymmetric lateral coherence of undulator radiation ENDTITLE A modified two-slit interferometer for characterizing the asymmetric lateral coherence of undulator radiation ENDTITLES Recently we have shown that the asymmetric lateral coherence of betatron radiation is characterized by peculiar properties that are evidenced with the analysis of the coherence factor of radiation. We extend such results to radiation emitted by ultra-relativistic proton beams in a 2-periods undulator. Results of a 2-dimensional simulation show that the real analysis of the asymmetric lateral coherence substantially improves the resolving power, thus transverse beam non-uniformities and the beam size can be measured at large distance. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Constructing and Testing Data Models for LHC Electrical Quality Assurance ENDTITLE Constructing and Testing Data Models for LHC Electrical Quality Assurance ENDTITLES Constructing and testing various data models is a highly iterative and creative process. It requires the work of a team in an interdisciplinary way and a good understanding of the domain within which the models are developed. In this paper, we showed an approach for the construction and the estimation of various data models for hardware commissioning of the Large Hadron Collider (LHC). We reported the development of the methodology for constructing and testing the data models for electrical quality assurance (ELQA) and presented the outputs of the iterative processes of various models intended for the development of a software analysis tool for the ELQA campaigns, which will be used to discover similar patterns of low quality tests on circuits when dealing with non-conformities of the LHC hardware commissioning in the future. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Simulation-Based Performance Analysis of the ALICE Mass Storage System ENDTITLE Simulation-Based Performance Analysis of the ALICE Mass Storage System ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Electromagnetism in a Multiconnected Universe ENDTITLE Electromagnetism in a Multiconnected Universe ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Relations in the space of (2,0) heterotic string models ENDTITLES Understanding better the landscape of string models and eventually finding, if possible, a dynamical way to select among them is one of the most interesting, open problems in string theory. In this thesis, we investigate aspects of the heterotic landscape and discuss relations among large classes of vacua. The first part of the thesis is devoted to the equivalence between free fermionic models and orbifolds. Free fermionic models and symmetric heterotic toroidal orbifolds both constitute exact backgrounds that can be used effectively for phenomenological explorations within string theory. It is widely believed that for Z_2xZ_2 orbifolds the two descriptions should be equivalent, but a detailed dictionary between both formulations was lacking. A detailed account of how the input data of both descriptions can be related to each other can be found in this thesis. In particular, we show that the generalized GSO phases of the free fermionic model correspond to generalized torsion phases used in orbifold model building. We illustrate our translation methods by providing free fermionic realizations for all Z_2xZ_2 orbifold geometries in six dimensions. In the second half of the thesis, we turn our attention to a novel idea called spinor-vector duality. In its original form, spinor-vector duality was limited to Z_2 structures. Here, we use the language of simple currents to generalize this idea to theories with arbitrary internal RCFTs. We also elucidate the underlying spectral flow structure. Even though the spectral flow has been traditionally used to relate states within a single model, we offer a new way to look at it, allowing relations between different models. Contrary to the equivalence between free fermionic models and orbifolds, many of the models related by the spectral flow are not physically equivalent. Nevertheless, the The idea of grouping together models into families according to the spectral flow orbit is quite important: the spectra of the models, though not identical, are related and we can make statements about models in the entire family by examining one representative. The grouping also offers a conceptual handle, acting as an organization principle in a vast landscape of models. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Fluence determination by scattering measurements ENDTITLE Fluence determination by scattering measurements ENDTITLES An alternative method to determine particle fluence is proposed, which is particularly suitable for irradiations with low-energy charged-particle beams. The fluence is obtained by measuring the elastic scattering produced by a composite thin target placed upstream of the sample. The absolute calibration is performed by comparison with the measured radioactivation of vanadium and copper samples. The composite thin target, made of aluminium, carbon and gold, allows not only the fluence to be measured, but also a continuous monitoring of the beam space distribution. Experimental results with a 27 MeV proton beam are reported and compared with Monte Carlo simulations. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
The ATLAS Level-1 Barrel Muon Trigger Performances ENDTITLE The ATLAS Level-1 Barrel Muon Trigger Performances ENDTITLES The level-1 muon trigger of ATLAS is expected to select events with high transverse momentum muons and associate them the correct bunch-crossing. For these purposes, dedicated fast detectors provide coarse measurement of the muon transverse momentum and high efficiency in its discrimination, giving also tracking measurements in two orthogonal views. In the barrel region (|eta|<1) it makes use of resistive plate chambers (RPCs) as active detectors. The trigger and readout chain is based on custom ASIC chips, which perform both the time and spatial coincidence with programmable roads and signal time shaping, and the readout, with a time resolution of 1/8 of a bunch crossing. A calibration procedure will allow to align signals in time and improve the background rejection of the system. The trigger system performances have been studied, testing multiple trigger configurations, on a cosmics test-stand using a full trigger tower of the ATLAS muon barrel spectrometer and the complete ATLAS trigger chain ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Possible experiments to search for axions ENDTITLES The possibility of searching for "light" axions in the resonant excitation of nuclear isomer states and in optical transitions is discussed. ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Investigating Quantum Spacetime Through Ice Cube Astrophysical Neutrinos Observation ENDTITLE Investigating Quantum Spacetime Through Ice Cube Astrophysical Neutrinos Observation ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
The Quantum Arnold Transformation and its applications ENDTITLES The Quantum Arnold Transformation, a unitary operator mapping the solutions of the Schr̈odinger equation for time-dependent quadratic Hamiltonians into free-particle solutions, is revisited. Possible applications and extensions are also outlined: the analytic construction of harmonic states for the free particle, the Quantum Arnold-Ermakov-Pinney transformation and the description of the Release & Recapture method. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
On the Question of Gamma-ray Bursts in the Vicinity of Black Holes ENDTITLES In the present work the question connected with the most adequate mathematical approach for description probable resonant effects in black holes vicinities is considered. Metrics of Schwarzschild and Reissner-Nordstrem are analyzed. Аннотация ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Lecture on Black Holes ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
ANALYTICAL CALCULATION OF QUASINORMAL MODES FOR NON- ROTATING KALUZA-K LEIN BLACK HOLE WITH SQUASHED HORIZONS ENDTITLES We study the Kaluza-Klein black holes, with squashed horizons. The system is perturbed by a massless scalar field. We analytically calculate the solution to the wave equation, which are called the quasinormal modes. We use an approximation technique for the non-rotating case, where the frequencies to solution are a set of discrete complex number. Our analytical results agree with the numerical results, where the difference percentage is 0.64% for the lowest fundamental mode λ=0. However as λ increasing, this percentage becomes larger. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
SCALAR WAVES IN SPACETIMES WITH CLOSED TIMELIKE CURVES ENDTITLES The existence and -if exists- the nature of the solutions of the scalar wave equa- tion in spacetimes with closed timelike curves are investigated. The general proper- ties of the solutions on some class of spacetimes are obtained. Global monochromatic solutions of the scalar wave equation are obtained in flat wormholes of dimensions 2+1 and 3+1. The solutions are in the form of infinite series involving cylindirical and spherical wave functions and they are elucidated by the multiple scattering method. Explicit solutions for some limiting cases are produced as well. The results of 2+1 dimensions are verified by using numerical methods ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Towards realistic models derived from SYM theories and D-branes in magnetized toroidal compactifications ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Гравитационное линзирование струнной заряженной черной дырой в приближении сильного поля ENDTITLES Исследуется гравитационное линзирование магнитной струнной черной дырой в приближении сильного поля на примере сверхмассивной черной дыры в центре галактики NGC4486B. Проведены численные расчеты угла отклонения света, на основании которых получены степень увеличения, радиус эйнштейновских колец и наблюдаемые для релятивистских изображений. Кроме того, исследовано временное запаздывание между релятивистскими изображениями для случаев, когда они находятся как по одну, так и по разные стороны линзы. Оказалось, что важну юроль в сильном гравитационном линзировании играет зарядовый параметр. ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Numerical general relativity in exotic settings ENDTITLES In this thesis, we discuss applications of numerical relativity in a variety of complex settings. After introducing aspects of black hole physics, extra dimensions, holography, and Einstein-Aether theory we discuss how one can frame the problem of solving the static Einstein equations as an elliptic boundary value problem by inclusion of a DeTurck gauge fixing term. Having setup this background, we turn to our simplest application of numerical relativity, namely fractionalisation in holographic condensed matter. We explain how one may describe this phenomenon by studying particular classes of hairy black holes and analysing whether bulk flux is sourced by a horizon or charged matter. This problem is our simplest application of numerical relativity as the Einstein equations reduce to ODEs and the problem may be solved by shooting methods. We next turn to a discussion of stationary numerical relativity and explain how one can also view the problem of finding stationary black hole solutions as an elliptic problem, generalising the static results discussed earlier. Ergoregions and horizons are naively a threat to ellipticity, but by considering a class of spacetimes describing a fibration of the stationary and axial Killing directions over a Riemannian base space manifold, we show how the problem can nevertheless still be phrased in this manner. Finally we close with a discussion of black holes in Einstein-Aether theory. These unusual objects have multiple horizons as a consequence of broken Lorentz symmetry, and in order to construct such solutions we explain how to generalise the PDE methods of previous sections to construct solutions interior to a metric horizon where the Harmonic Einstein equations cease to be elliptic. Using this new machinery we rediscover the spherically symmetric static black holes that have been found in the literature and moreover present the first known rotating solutions of the theory. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Sur la croissance des ondes simples et l'instabilité de chocs caractéristiques des systèmes hyperboliques avec application à la discontinuité de contact d'un fluide ENDTITLES Instability is proved by means of a Liapunov function. French abstract: L'instabilité est prouvée à l'aide d'une fonction de Liapunov. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
On the identification of Hammerstein systems in the presence of an input hysteretic nonlinearity with nonlocal memory: Piezoelectric actuators – an experimental case study ENDTITLE On the identification of Hammerstein systems in the presence of an input hysteretic nonlinearity with nonlocal memory: Piezoelectric actuators – an experimental case study ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
An experimental evaluation of the fully coupled hysteretic electro-mechanical behaviour of piezoelectric actuators ENDTITLE An experimental evaluation of the fully coupled hysteretic electro-mechanical behaviour of piezoelectric actuators ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Dose prescription in carbon ion radiotherapy: How to compare two different RBE-weighted dose calculation systems ENDTITLE Dose prescription in carbon ion radiotherapy: How to compare two different RBE-weighted dose calculation systems ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Superconducting transmission lines – Sustainable electric energy transfer with higher public acceptance? ENDTITLE Superconducting transmission lines – Sustainable electric energy transfer with higher public acceptance? ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
The effect of acid–base clustering and ions on the growth of atmospheric nano-particles ENDTITLE The effect of acid–base clustering and ions on the growth of atmospheric nano-particles ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Emerging importance of chemokine receptor CXCR3 and its ligands in cardiovascular diseases ENDTITLE Emerging importance of chemokine receptor CXCR3 and its ligands in cardiovascular diseases ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Limitation of the ECRIS performance by kinetic plasma instabilities (invited) ENDTITLE Limitation of the ECRIS performance by kinetic plasma instabilities (invited) ENDTITLES ABSTRACT Electron cyclotron resonance ion source (ECRIS) plasmas are prone to kinetic instabilities due to anisotropic electron velocity distribution. The instabilities are associated with strong microwave emission and periodic bursts of energetic electrons escaping the magnetic confinement. The instabilities explain the periodic ms-scale oscillation of the extracted beam current observed with several high performance ECRISs and restrict the parameter space available for the optimization of extracted beam currents of highly charged ions. Experiments with the JYFL 14 GHz ECRIS have demonstrated that due to the instabilities the optimum Bmin-field is less than 0.8BECR, which is the value suggested by the semiempirical scaling laws guiding the design of ECRISs. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Beam experiments with the Grenoble test electron cyclotron resonance ion source at iThemba LABS ENDTITLE Beam experiments with the Grenoble test electron cyclotron resonance ion source at iThemba LABS ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
The TwinEBIS setup: Machine description ENDTITLE The TwinEBIS setup: Machine description ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
A twin Frisch-grid ionization chamber as a selective detector for the delayed gamma-spectroscopy of fission fragments ENDTITLE A twin Frisch-grid ionization chamber as a selective detector for the delayed gamma-spectroscopy of fission fragments ENDTITLES We present a twin Frisch-grid ionization chamber. The detector is meant to provide high selective power for the study of delayed gamma-ray spectroscopy of fission fragments produced via 252Cf spontaneous fission. A mean energy resolution on the kinetic energy of fission fragments of 675 keV (FWHM) is achieved and allows us to resolve masses of fragments for fission events where neutron emission is not energetically possible. The mean mass resolution measured for these particular events amounts to 0.54 mass units (FWHM). For fission events with neutron emission a resolution of 4 mass units (FWHM) is reported. Information on fragment emission angle is measured with a resolution of 0.1 on the difference of the cosines determined for both halves of the detector. A charge resolution of 4.5 charge units (FWHM) is also demonstrated. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Kinetic modeling of E-to-H mode transition in inductively coupled hydrogen plasmas ENDTITLE Kinetic modeling of E-to-H mode transition in inductively coupled hydrogen plasmas ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Testing Physics Beyond the Standard Model in Neutrino Sector ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Effects of Two-Body Currents on the Nuclear Electroweak response ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Neutrino Physics at ESS and the upgrades needed for the ESSnuSB ENDTITLES The European Spallation Source (ESS) in Lund, Sweden, will provide, by 2023, the world’s most powerful neutron source. The 2 GeV ESS linac will provide 5 MW protons. The total power of the linac can be raised to 10 MW by increasing its pulse frequency, thus making possible the production of, in addition, a very intense, 0.4 GeV neutrino Super Beam, ESSnuSB. Search for leptonic CP violation at the second oscillation maximum, where the sensitivity is about 3 times higher than at the first, would be possible at 5σ significance level in 56% (65% for an upgrade to 2.5 GeV beam energy) of the leptonic CP-violating phase range after 10 years of data taking. 5% systematic error in the neutrino flux and 10% in the neutrino cross section are assumed. The outstanding physics reach possible with ESSnuSB and the upgrade of the ESS accelerator complex needed for ESSnuSB will be discussed in the paper. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
The Extraction of Polarization Structural Functions from Asymmetry in Deep Inelastic Neutrino Scattering ENDTITLES A new approach to the extraction of the polarized structure function of the nucleon from the measurable asymmetries in the deep inelastic lepton-nucleon scattering with the charged weak current applicable for any target is proposed. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Microbunch dynamics and multistream instability in a heavy-ion synchrotron ENDTITLE Microbunch dynamics and multistream instability in a heavy-ion synchrotron ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Cryogénie, supraconductivité et accélérateurs de particules : 50 ans de développements croisés ENDTITLE Cryogénie, supraconductivité et accélérateurs de particules : 50 ans de développements croisés ENDTITLES La supraconductivité est aujourd’hui une technologieclé des grands accélérateurs de particules, leur permettant d’atteindre des énergies de faisceau élevées tout en contenant leurs dimensions et leur consommation électrique. Les dispositifs supraconducteurs à basse température – aimants et cavités résonnantes hyperfréquence – requièrent des systèmes cryogéniques puissants à l’hélium liquide et, dans certains cas, superfluide. La cryogénie permet en outre d’assurer l’ultravide qui règne dans les tubes de faisceau et de garantir la stabilité des faisceaux. Nous expliquons ces différents besoins, mentionnons les développements au cours du demi-siècle écoulé et présentons les défis des projets futurs. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Improved decay rates with small regularity loss for the wave equation about a Schwarzschild black hole ENDTITLE Improved decay rates with small regularity loss for the wave equation about a Schwarzschild black hole ENDTITLES We continue our study of the decoupled wave equation in the exterior of a spherically symmetric, Schwarzschild, black hole. Because null geodesics on the photon sphere orbit the black hole, extra effort must be made to show that the high angular momentum components of a solution decay sufficiently fast, particularly for low regularity initial data. Previous results are rapid decay for regular ($H^3$) initial data \cite{BSterbenz} and slower decay for rough ($H^{1+\epsilon}$) initial data \cite{BlueSoffer3}. Here, we combine those methods to show boundedness of the conformal charge. From this, we conclude that there are bounds for global in time, space-time norms, in particular \int_I |\tilde\phi|^4 d^4vol < C for $H^{1+\epsilon}$ initial data with additional decay towards infinite and the bifurcation sphere. Here $\tilde\phi$ refers to a solution of the wave equation. $I$ denotes the exterior region of the Schwarzschild solution, which can be expressed in coordinates as $r>2M$, $t\in\Reals, \omega\in S^2$, and $d^4\text{vol}$ is the natural 4-dimensional volume induced by the Schwarzschild pseudo-metric. We also demonstrate that the photon sphere has the same influence on the wave equation as a closed geodesic has on the wave equation on a Riemannian manifold. We demonstrate this similarity by extending our techniques to the wave equation on a class of Riemannian manifolds. Under further assumptions, the space-time estimates are sufficient to prove global bounds for small data, nonlinear wave equations on a class of Riemannian manifolds with closed geodesics. We must use global, space-time integral estimates since $L^\infty$ estimates cannot hold at this level of regularity. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Gravitational lensing in an exotic spacetime ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Spherically Symmetric Wormhole Gravitational Lens Deflection Angle Signifying Braneworld Cosmology ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Gravitational Lensing by Reissner-Nordstrom Extremal Black Hole ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Gravitational Lensing by Reissner-Nordstrom Extremal Black Hole ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Gravitational Lensing by Reissner-Nordstrom Extremal Black Hole ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Gravitational Lensing by Reissner-Nordstrom Extremal Black Hole ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Gravitational Lensing by Reissner-Nordstrom Extremal Black Hole ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Constraining the Hep Solar Neutrino and Di use Supernova Neutrino Background Fluxes With the Sudbury Neutrino Observatory ENDTITLES e Sudbury Neutrino Observatory has demonstrated that the apparent de cit in solar neutrinos observed on Earth is due to ma er-enhanced avor transitions, and provided precision measurements of the relevant oscillation parameters. e low backgrounds and large, spectral charged-current $\nu_e-d$ cross section that enabled these measurements also give SNO unique sensitivity to two yet-unobserved neutrino signals of great interest: the $hep$ solar neutrino ux and the di use supernova neutrino background (DSNB). is work presents a joint analysis of all three running con gurations of the SNO experiment in order to improve constraints on the $hep$ and DSNB $\nu_e$ uxes. e crucial uncertainties in the energy response and atmospheric neutrino background, as well as the event selection criteria, are reevaluated. Two analysis approaches are taken, a single-bin counting analysis ($hep$ and DSNB) and multidimensional signal extraction t ($hep$), using a random sample representing 1/3 of the total SNO data. ese searches are the most sensitive to date for these important signals, and will improve further when the full dataset is analyzed. e SNO+ liquid scintillator experiment is a successor to SNO primarily concerned with a search for neutrinoless double-beta decay ($0\nu\beta\beta$) in $^{130}$Te. e modi cations to the SNO detector in preparation for SNO+ and an analysis of the $0\nu\beta\beta$ sensitivity of this upcoming experiment will also be presented in this work. SNO+ will be the rst experiment to load Te into liquid scintillator, and is expected to achieve world-class sensitivity in an initial phase commencing in 2017, with signi cantly improved sensitivity in an upgraded con guration to follow using much higher Te target mass. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Constraining the Hep Solar Neutrino and Di use Supernova Neutrino Background Fluxes With the Sudbury Neutrino Observatory ENDTITLES e Sudbury Neutrino Observatory has demonstrated that the apparent de cit in solar neutrinos observed on Earth is due to ma er-enhanced avor transitions, and provided precision measurements of the relevant oscillation parameters. e low backgrounds and large, spectral charged-current $\nu_e-d$ cross section that enabled these measurements also give SNO unique sensitivity to two yet-unobserved neutrino signals of great interest: the $hep$ solar neutrino ux and the di use supernova neutrino background (DSNB). is work presents a joint analysis of all three running con gurations of the SNO experiment in order to improve constraints on the $hep$ and DSNB $\nu_e$ uxes. e crucial uncertainties in the energy response and atmospheric neutrino background, as well as the event selection criteria, are reevaluated. Two analysis approaches are taken, a single-bin counting analysis ($hep$ and DSNB) and multidimensional signal extraction t ($hep$), using a random sample representing 1/3 of the total SNO data. ese searches are the most sensitive to date for these important signals, and will improve further when the full dataset is analyzed. e SNO+ liquid scintillator experiment is a successor to SNO primarily concerned with a search for neutrinoless double-beta decay ($0\nu\beta\beta$) in $^{130}$Te. e modi cations to the SNO detector in preparation for SNO+ and an analysis of the $0\nu\beta\beta$ sensitivity of this upcoming experiment will also be presented in this work. SNO+ will be the rst experiment to load Te into liquid scintillator, and is expected to achieve world-class sensitivity in an initial phase commencing in 2017, with signi cantly improved sensitivity in an upgraded con guration to follow using much higher Te target mass. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Analytical Computation of the Perihelion Precession in General Relativity via the Homotopy Perturbation Method ENDTITLES We propose a new approach in studying the planetary orbits and the perihelion precession in General Relativity by means of the Homotopy Perturbation Method (HPM).For this purpose, we give a brief review of the nonlinear geodesic equations in the spherical symmetry spacetime which are to be studied in our work. On the basis of the main idea of HPM, we construct the appropriate homotopy what leads to the problem of solving the set of linear equations. First of all, we consider the simple example of the Schwarzschild metric for which the approximate geodesics solutions are known, in order to compare the HPM solution for orbits with those obtained earlier. Moreover, we obtain an approximate HPM solution for the Reissner-Nordstorm spacetime of a charged star. ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Quantum gravity as a low energy effective field theory ENDTITLE Quantum gravity as a low energy effective field theory ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Characterizing Quality Factor of Niobium Resonators Using a Markov Chain Monte Carlo Approach ENDTITLE Characterizing Quality Factor of Niobium Resonators Using a Markov Chain Monte Carlo Approach ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Quantização de sistemas não-Lagrangianos e mecânica quântica não-comutativa ENDTITLES We present here three interrelated problems: quantization of non-Lagrangian theories, noncom- mutative quantum mechanics (NCQM) and a constructions of the star product trough the the Weyl ordering. In the context of the first problem an approach to the canonical quantization of systems with non-Lagrangian equations of motion is proposed. We construct an action principle for an equivalent first-order equations of motion. There exists an ambiguity (not reducible to a total time derivative) in associating a Lagrange function with the given set of equations. We give a complete description of this ambiguity. The proposed scheme is applied to quantization of a general quadratic theory. Also the quantization of a damped oscillator and a radiating point-like charge is constructed. In the context of NCQM we propose a path integral formu- lation of relativistic NCQM and construct a noncommutative generalization of superparticle action. After quantization, the proposed action reproduces the Klein-Gordon and Dirac equa- tions in the noncommutative field theories. In the context of the third problem we develop an approach to the deformation quantization on the real plane with an arbitrary Poisson structure which based on Weyl symmetrically ordered operator products. A simple and effective itera- tive procedure of the construction of star products is formulated. This procedure allowed us to calculate the third and the fourth order star products. Modulo some cohomology issues which we do not consider here, the method gives an explicit and physics-friendly description of the star products. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Dinˆamica de uma part ́ıcula neutra em mecˆanica quˆantica na ̃o-comutativa e em um regime de quebra da simetria de Lorentz ENDTITLES We investigate some non-relativistic quantum phenomena, such topological phases and Landau quantization, in a non-commutative quantum mechanics context and in a Lorentz- symmetry violation regime. We present these effects considering the quantum mechanics of neutral particles systems submitted to electromagnetic fields. In this sense we use the term “analog of effect”. Under certain conditions to the fields configuration, we can find quantized energy levels to a system of neutral particles coupled to a electromagnetic field. Another analog effects may be obtained if we consider duality transformations, such the Heaviside duality transformations. In the Lorentz-symmetry violation context, we find some effects related to the background that controls the breaking of vacuum isotropy. Thus we obtain interesting contributions to the Anandan phase. In the same context, we realize the Landau quantization to neutral particles in a Lorentz-invariance breaking framework. As another way of Lorentz-symmetry violation, we study topological phases for neutral particles systems taking account the non-commutativity of the coordinates of space and phase space. Also we investigate a analog of Landau quantization to neutral particles in the non-commutativity context. Since we have found the wave functions related to the Landau levels, we construct a analog of the quantum Hall effect to neutral particles submitted to electromagnetic fields. We also consider a analog of quantum Hall effect in a neutral particle system submitted to Lorentz-symmetry breaking background. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Kinetic modeling of E-to-H mode transition in inductively coupled hydrogen plasmas ENDTITLE Kinetic modeling of E-to-H mode transition in inductively coupled hydrogen plasmas ENDTITLES Radio Frequency (RF) Inductively Coupled Plasmas (ICPs) are widely known for their two discharge modes, i.e., H-mode and E-mode, where the dynamics of the plasmas are completely different from each other. We have performed a kinetic simulation of a hydrogen plasma discharge in order to clarify the discharge mechanism and the E-to-H transition of the RF ICPs. The numerical simulation results, such as the time variations of spatial distribution of electron density and the power dissipated in the plasma, show the characteristic changes of the plasma dynamics due to E-to-H mode transition. Especially, the drastic change during the mode transition has been observed in the time evolution of the electron energy distribution function (EEDF). The EEDF deviates from a Maxwellian distribution before/after the transition and the deviation is more significant in the E-mode phase. These results indicate the importance of kinetic modeling for the physical understanding of E-to-H transition. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
The effect of cavity tuning on oxygen beam currents of an A-ECR type 14 GHz electron cyclotron resonance ion source ENDTITLE The effect of cavity tuning on oxygen beam currents of an A-ECR type 14 GHz electron cyclotron resonance ion source ENDTITLES The efficiency of the microwave-plasma coupling plays a significant role in the production of highly charged ion beams with electron cyclotron resonance ion sources (ECRISs). The coupling properties are affected by the mechanical design of the ion source plasma chamber and microwave launching system, as well as damping of the microwave electric field by the plasma. Several experiments attempting to optimize the microwave-plasma coupling characteristics by fine-tuning the frequency of the injected microwaves have been conducted with varying degrees of success. The inherent difficulty in interpretation of the frequency tuning results is that the effects of microwave coupling system and the cavity behavior of the plasma chamber cannot be separated. A preferable approach to study the effect of the cavity properties of the plasma chamber on extracted beam currents is to adjust the cavity dimensions. The results of such cavity tuning experiments conducted with the JYFL 14 GHz ECRIS are reported here. The cavity properties were adjusted by inserting a conducting tuner rod axially into the plasma chamber. The extracted beam currents of oxygen charge states O3+–O7+ were recorded at various tuner positions and frequencies in the range of 14.00–14.15 GHz. It was observed that the tuner position affects the beam currents of high charge state ions up to several tens of percent. In particular, it was found that at some tuner position / frequency combinations the plasma exhibited “mode-hopping” between two operating regimes. The results improve the understanding of the role of plasma chamber cavity properties on ECRIS performances. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Modeling the thermodynamics and kinetics of sulfuric acid-dimethylamine-water nanoparticle growth in the CLOUD chamber ENDTITLE Modeling the thermodynamics and kinetics of sulfuric acid-dimethylamine-water nanoparticle growth in the CLOUD chamber ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Efficiency calibration of a portable CZT detector for nondestructive activation assessment of a cyclotron bunker ENDTITLE Efficiency calibration of a portable CZT detector for nondestructive activation assessment of a cyclotron bunker ENDTITLES During the operational life of a PET Cyclotron, the concrete walls of the cyclotron vault are activated by the secondary neutron flux interacting with rare earths and metals present in the concrete or in reinforcement bars. For this reason when considering dismantling of such accelerators, the amount of radioactive waste has to be evaluated in advance to identify any critical issues or possible countermeasures to be taken to define an optimum decommissioning strategy. The aim of this work is to define a non-destructive in situ measurement methodology for a preliminary activation assessment of a cyclotron bunker with no need for core drilling. A very compact, USB-powered, CdZnTe (CZT) detector for gamma-ray spectrometry was used for the activation assessment of the site of installation of a GE PETtrace (16.5MeV) cyclotron, routinely used in the production of positron-emitting radionuclides. Because of the complexity of measurement geometry, the efficiency calibration of the detector was performed via Monte Carlo (MC) simulations. The detector was accurately modelled using FLUKA, including a 5cm lead shielding set-up. The MC model of the detector was validated for a wide range of energies and different source geometries, showing discrepancies below 5% for all tested sources. The efficiency curve for wall activation measurements was calculated, allowing a quantitative evaluation of activity concentration. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
An innovative gamma-ray spectrometry system using a compact and portable CZT detector for radionuclidic purity tests of PET radiopharmaceuticals ENDTITLE An innovative gamma-ray spectrometry system using a compact and portable CZT detector for radionuclidic purity tests of PET radiopharmaceuticals ENDTITLES This work was aimed at characterizing and validating a very compact, USB-powered, CdZnTe detector for gamma-ray spectrometry applications in radiopharmacy. A GR1 model (by KromekTM, Sedgefield, UK) was utilized. The detector was calibrated in energy and efficiency. Samples of [18F]FDG and [68Ga]-DOTANOC were measured to assess the detector’s suitability in radionuclidic purity measurements. The energy resolution and the efficiency obtained are fully adequate for quality control of positron emission tomography radiopharmaceuticals. Results of [18F]FDG and [68Ga]-DOTANOC samples proved to be comparable to those obtained using high-purity Germanium detectors. The performance of the detector and its very compact size make this type of device an extremely attractive tool for QC applications in radiopharmacy. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Linear encoder based low frequency inertial sensor ENDTITLE Linear encoder based low frequency inertial sensor ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Thermal stability of interface voids in Cu grain boundaries with molecular dynamic simulations ENDTITLE Thermal stability of interface voids in Cu grain boundaries with molecular dynamic simulations ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Biologically optimized helium ion plans: calculation approach and its in vitro validation ENDTITLE Biologically optimized helium ion plans: calculation approach and itsin vitrovalidation ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
A new method for depth of interaction determination in PET detectors ENDTITLE A new method for depth of interaction determination in PET detectors ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Data-driven RBE parameterization for helium ion beams ENDTITLE Data-driven RBE parameterization for helium ion beams ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
A model for the accurate computation of the lateral scattering of protons in water ENDTITLE A model for the accurate computation of the lateral scattering of protons in water ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Measurement of intrinsic rise times for various L(Y)SO and LuAG scintillators with a general study of prompt photons to achieve 10 ps in TOF-PET ENDTITLE Measurement of intrinsic rise times for various L(Y)SO and LuAG scintillators with a general study of prompt photons to achieve 10 ps in TOF-PET ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Comparison of microstructure, second phases and texture formation during melt processing of Bi-2212 mono- and multifilament wires ENDTITLE Comparison of microstructure, second phases and texture formation during melt processing of Bi-2212 mono- and multifilament wires ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Unified Scaling Law for flux pinning in practical superconductors: II. Parameter testing, scaling constants, and the Extrapolative Scaling Expression ENDTITLE Unified Scaling Law for flux pinning in practical superconductors: II. Parameter testing, scaling constants, and the Extrapolative Scaling Expression ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
BioSharing: curated and crowd-sourced metadata standards, databases and data policies in the life sciences ENDTITLE BioSharing: curated and crowd-sourced metadata standards, databases and data policies in the life sciences ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Nonlocal quantum gravity: A review ENDTITLES We hereby review a class of quantum gravitational theories based on weakly nonlocal analytic classical actions. The most general action is characterized by two nonpolynomial entire functions (form-factors) in terms quadratic in curvature. The form-factors avert the presence of poltergeists, that plague any local higher derivative theory of gravity and improve the high-energy behavior of loop amplitudes. For pedagogical purposes, it is proved that the theory is super-renormalizable in any dimension, i.e. only one-loop divergences survive, and is asymptotically free. Furthermore, due to dimensional reasons, in odd dimensions, there are no counterterms for pure gravity and the theory turns out to be finite. Moreover, we show that it is always possible to choose the additional terms in the action (higher in curvature) in such a way to make the full theory UV-finite and therefore, scale-invariant in quantum realm, also in even dimension. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Wide dynamic range acquisition system for innovative radiation detectors ENDTITLE Wide dynamic range acquisition system for innovative radiation detectors ENDTITLES There is particular interest to develop low-noise and wide dynamic range data acquisition systems for silicon detectors in view of using the same acquisition readout electronics for a wide range of application fields like monitoring and characterization of radiation sources or particle beams. In the framework of a research project for the qualification of Components Off The Shelf (COTS) for their use in space, research groups from INFN-Perugia, INFN-LNS and from MAPRAD have developed a fully automated, remote controllable, wide dynamic range acquisition system for silicon strip or pixelated detectors. Its design and a basic description of the performance are given here. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Imprints of Quantum Gravity on Large Field Inflation and Reheating ENDTITLES In this thesis we investigate the feasibility and phenomenology of transplanckian field displacements during Inflation as well as the production of very light fields during Reheating. We begin by focusing on realisations of axion inflation in the complex structure moduli sector of Type IIB String Theory (ST) flux compactifications. Firstly, we analyse the problem of backreaction of complex structure moduli on the inflationary trajectory in a concrete model of axion monodromy inflation. Secondly, we propose a realisation of natural inflation where the inflaton arises as a combination of two axions. In both cases we find sufficiently flat inflationary potentials over a limited, but transplanckian field range. However, our realisation of axion monodromy inflation requires a potentially large, though realisable, number of tunings to ensure that the inflationary shift symmetry is only weakly broken. The consequences of the Weak Gravity Conjecture (WGC) for axion monodromy inflation are then explored. We find that the conjecture provides a bound on the inflationary field range, but does not forbid transplanckian displacements. Moreover, we provide a strategy to generalise the WGC to general p-form gauge theories in ST. Finally, we focus on the physics of the early post-inflationary phase. We show that axion monodromy inflation can lead to a phase decomposition, followed by the radiation of potentially detectable gravitational waves. We also propose a strategy to evade the overproduction of Dark Radiation in the Large Volume Scenario of moduli stabilisation, by means of flavour branes wrapping the bulk cycle of the compactification manifold. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Classification of the Lie and Noether point symmetries for the Wave and the Klein-Gordon equations in pp-wave spacetimes ENDTITLE Classification of the Lie and Noether point symmetries for the Wave and the Klein-Gordon equations in pp-wave spacetimes ENDTITLES We perform a classification of the Lie and Noether point symmetries for the Klein-Gordon and for the wave equation in pp-wave spacetimes. To perform this analysis we reduce the problem of the determination of the point symmetries to the problem of existence of conformal killing vectors on the pp-wave spacetimes. We use the existing results of the literature for the isometry classes of the pp-wave spacetimes and we determine in each class the functional form of the potential in which the Klein-Gordon equation admits point symmetries and Noetherian conservation law. Finally we derive the point symmetries of the wave equation and we find that the maximum Noether algebra has dimension seven, that is the case of plane wave spacetimes. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Cryogenic Wide-Area Light Detectors for Neutrino and Dark Matter Searches ENDTITLE Cryogenic Wide-Area Light Detectors for Neutrino and Dark Matter Searches ENDTITLES Large-mass arrays of bolometers proved to be good detectors for neutrinoless double beta decay (0ννDBD) and dark matter searches. CUORE and LUCIFER are bolometric 0ννDBD experiments that will start to take data in 2015 at Laboratori Nazionali del Gran Sasso in Italy. The sensitivity of CUORE could be increased by removing the background due to αα particles, by detecting the small amount of Čerenkov light (∼∼100 eV) emitted by the ββs’ signal and not by ααs. LUCIFER could be extended to detect also dark matter, provided that the background from ββ/γγ particles (∼∼100 eV of scintillation light) is discriminated from nuclear recoils of about 10 keV energy (no light). We have recently started to develop light detectors for CUORE, LUCIFER and similar bolometric experiments. The aim is to obtain detectors with an active area of 5×5 cm25×5 cm2 (the face of bolometric crystals), operating at 10 mK, and with an energy resolution at the baseline below 20 eV RMS. We have chosen to develop phonon-mediated detectors with KID sensors. We are currently testing the first prototypes. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
任意の物質密度下でのニュートリノ振動におけるCP位相の一般的な特徴 ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Characteristic shocks: Completely and strictly exceptional systems ENDTITLES (Translated from the Italian abstract): We consider a quasi-linear hyperbolic system in two independent variables. We determine the most general form for the system to be completely exceptional (in the sense that weak discontinuities do not produce bumps), proving that this system admits infinite conservative forms. Simple examples are constructed that the bumps associated with the weak solutions are all characteristic (strictly exceptional systems) or have speeds equal to the corresponding speeds of the discontinuity waves (as in the linear case). It has been proved that even non-characteristic shocks are possible for a suitable choice of a conservative form and therefore the class of strictly exceptional systems is contained in the class of completely exceptional systems. Conservative forms are also studied that derive from a variation principle. Finally, several examples are given that originate from physics. Original Italian abstract: Si considera un sistema iperbolico quasi-lineare in due variabili indipendenti. Si determina la forma più generale affinchè il sistema sia completamente eccezionale (nel senso che le discontinuità deboli non producono urti), provando che tale sistema ammette infinite forme conservative. Si costruiscono semplici esempi in cui gli urti associati alle soluzioni deboli sono tutti caratteristici (sistemi strettamente eccezionali) ovvero hanno velocità uguali alle corrispondenti velocità della onde di discontinuità (come nel caso lineare). Vine provato che sono possibili anche urti non caratteristici per un'opportuna scelta della forma conservativa e pertanto che la classe die sistemi strettamente eccezionali è contenuta nella classe dei sistemi completamente eccezionali. Vengono anche studiate forme conservative che deriano da un principio variazionale. Infine si danno diversi esempi che provengono dalla Fisica. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
The physics of the FLUKA code: Recent developments ENDTITLE The physics of the FLUKA code: Recent developments ENDTITLES FLUKA is a Monte-Carlo code able to simulate interaction and transport of hadrons, heavy ions and electromagnetic particles from few keV (or thermal neutron) to cosmic ray energies in whichever material. The highest priority in the design and development of the code has always been the implementation and improvement of sound and modern physical models. A summary of the FLUKA physical models is given, while recent developments are described in detail: among the others, extensions of the intermediate energy hadronic interaction generator, refinements in photon cross sections and interaction models, analytical on-line evolution of radio-activation and remnant dose. In particular, new developments in the nucleus–nucleus interaction models are discussed. Comparisons with experimental data and examples of applications of relevance for space radiation are also provided. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Muon astrophysics with the MACRO detector ENDTITLE Muon astrophysics with the MACRO detector ENDTITLES Muon events collected with the streamer tube system of MACRO have been used to study the vertical muon intensity and to search for astrophysical point sources. New upper limits on the muon fluxes coming from source candidates have been obtained. The/~ pair distance distribution and multimuon rates are presented and compared with Monte Carlo predictions for different primary cosmic rays composition models. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Givental symmetries of Frobenius manifolds and multi-component KP tau-functions ENDTITLE Givental symmetries of Frobenius manifolds and multi-component KP tau-functions ENDTITLE Givental symmetries of Frobenius manifolds and multi-component KP tau-functions ENDTITLES We establish a link between two different constructions of the action of the twisted loop group on the space of Frobenius structures. The first construction (due to Givental) describes the action of the twisted loop group on the partition functions of formal Gromov-Witten theories. The explicit formulas for the corresponding tangent action were computed by Y.-P. Lee. The second construction (due to van de Leur) describes the action of the same group on the space of Frobenius structures via the multi-component KP hierarchies. Our main theorem states that the genus zero restriction of the Y.-P. Lee formulas coincides with the tangent van de Leur action. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Geometry of the Universe Described by Wet Dark Fluid in f(R, T) Theory of Gravity ENDTITLE Geometry of the Universe Described by Wet Dark Fluid in f(R, T) Theory of Gravity ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
The fluka code for space applications: recent developments ENDTITLE The fluka code for space applications: recent developments ENDTITLES The fluka Monte Carlo transport code is widely used for fundamental research, radioprotection and dosimetry, hybrid nuclear energy system and cosmic ray calculations. The validity of its physical models has been benchmarked against a variety of experimental data over a wide range of energies, ranging from accelerator data to cosmic ray showers in the earth atmosphere. The code is presently undergoing several developments in order to better fit the needs of space applications. The generation of particle spectra according to up-to-date cosmic ray data as well as the effect of the solar and geomagnetic modulation have been implemented and already successfully applied to a variety of problems. The implementation of suitable models for heavy ion nuclear interactions has reached an operational stage. At medium/high energy fluka is using the dpmjet model. The major task of incorporating heavy ion interactions from a few GeV/n down to the threshold for inelastic collisions is also progressing and promising results have been obtained using a modified version of the rqmd-2.4 code. This interim solution is now fully operational, while waiting for the development of new models based on the fluka hadron–nucleus interaction code, a newly developed QMD code, and the implementation of the Boltzmann master equation theory for low energy ion interactions. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
The FLUKA code: New developments and application to 1GeV/n iron beams ENDTITLE The FLUKA code: New developments and application to 1GeV/n iron beams ENDTITLES The modeling of ion transport and interactions in matter is a subject of growing interest, driven by the continuous increase of possible application fields. These include hadron therapy, dosimetry, and space missions, but there are also several issues involving fundamental research, accelerator physics, and cosmic ray physics, where a reliable description of heavy ion induced cascades is important. In the present work, the capabilities of the fluka code for ion beams will be briefly recalled and some recent developments presented. Applications of the code to the simulation of therapeutic carbon, nitrogen and oxygen ion beams, and of iron beams, which are of direct interest for space mission related experiments, will be also presented together with interesting consideration relative to the evaluation of dosimetric quantities. Both applications involve ion beams in the AGeV range. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
The FLUKA code: New developments and application to 1GeV/n iron beams ENDTITLE The FLUKA code: New developments and application to 1GeV/n iron beams ENDTITLES The modeling of ion transport and interactions in matter is a subject of growing interest, driven by the continuous increase of possible application fields. These include hadron therapy, dosimetry, and space missions, but there are also several issues involving fundamental research, accelerator physics, and cosmic ray physics, where a reliable description of heavy ion induced cascades is important. In the present work, the capabilities of the fluka code for ion beams will be briefly recalled and some recent developments presented. Applications of the code to the simulation of therapeutic carbon, nitrogen and oxygen ion beams, and of iron beams, which are of direct interest for space mission related experiments, will be also presented together with interesting consideration relative to the evaluation of dosimetric quantities. Both applications involve ion beams in the AGeV range. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Event generators for simulating heavy ion interactions to evaluate the radiation risks in spaceflight ENDTITLE Event generators for simulating heavy ion interactions to evaluate the radiation risks in spaceflight ENDTITLES Simulating the space radiation environment with Monte Carlo codes, such as FLUKA, requires the ability to model the interactions of heavy ions as they penetrate spacecraft and crew member's bodies. Monte-Carlo-type transport codes use total interaction cross sections to determine when a particular type of interaction has occurred. Then, at that point, a distinct event generator is employed to determine separately the results of that interaction. The space radiation environment contains a full spectrum of radiation types, including relativistic nuclei, which are the most important component for the evaluation of crew doses. Interactions between incident protons with target nuclei in the spacecraft materials and crew member's bodies are well understood. However, the situation is substantially less comfortable for incident heavier nuclei (heavy ions). We have been engaged in developing several related heavy ion interaction models based on a quantum molecular dynamics-type approach for energies up through about 5 GeV per nucleon (GeV/A) as part of a NASA consortium that includes a parallel program of cross section measurements to guide and verify this code development ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Kontsevich–Zagier integrals for automorphic Green’s functions. II ENDTITLE Kontsevich-Zagier Integrals for Automorphic Green's Functions. II ENDTITLE Kontsevich–Zagier integrals for automorphic Green’s functions. II ENDTITLES We introduce interaction entropies, which can be represented as logarithmic couplings of certain cycles on a class of algebraic curves of arithmetic interest. In particular, via interaction entropies for Legendre-Ramanujan curves $ Y^n=(1-X)^{n-1}X(1-\alpha X)$ ($ n\in\{6,4,3,2\}$), we reformulate the Kontsevich-Zagier integral representations of weight-4 automorphic Green's functions $ G_2^{\mathfrak H/\overline{\varGamma}_0(N)}(z_1,z_2)$ ($N=4\sin^2(\pi/n )\in\{1,2,3,4\}$), in a geometric context. These geometric entropies allow us to establish algebraic relations between certain weight-4 automorphic self-energies and special values of weight-6 automorphic Green's functions. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Kontsevich–Zagier integrals for automorphic Green’s functions. I ENDTITLE Kontsevich-Zagier Integrals for Automorphic Green's Functions. I ENDTITLE Kontsevich–Zagier integrals for automorphic Green’s functions. I ENDTITLES In the framework of Kontsevich-Zagier periods, we derive integral representations for weight-$k$ automorphic Green's functions invariant under modular transformations in $\varGamma_0(N)$ ($N\in\mathbb Z_{\geq1} $), provided that there are no cusp forms on the respective Hecke congruence groups with an even integer weight $k\geq4$. These Kontsevich-Zagier integral representations for automorphic Green's functions give explicit formulae for certain Eichler-Shimura maps connecting Eichler cohomology to Maa{\ss} cusp forms. We construct integral representations for weight-4 Gross-Zagier renormalized Green's functions (automorphic self-energy) from limit scenarios of the respective Kontsevich-Zagier integrals. We reduce the weight-4 automorphic self-energy on $ X_0(4)(\mathbb C)=\varGamma_0(4)\setminus\mathfrak H^*$ to an explicit form, which supports an algebraicity conjecture of Gross and Zagier. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Differential hypersaline stress response inZygosaccharomyces rouxiicomplex yeasts: a physiological and transcriptional study ENDTITLE Differential hypersaline stress response inZygosaccharomyces rouxiicomplex yeasts: a physiological and transcriptional study ENDTITLES The Zygosaccharomyces rouxii complex comprises three distinct lineages of halotolerant yeasts relevant in food processing and spoilage, such as Z. sapae, Z. rouxii and a mosaic group of allodiploid strains. They manifest plastic genome architecture (variation in karyotype, ploidy level and Na+/H+ antiporter-encoding gene copy number), and exhibit diverse tolerances to salt concentrations. Here, we investigated accumulation of compatible osmolytes and transcriptional regulation of Na+/H+ antiporter-encoding ZrSOD genes during salt exposure in strains representative for the lineages, namely Z. sapae ABT301(T) (low salt tolerant), Z. rouxii CBS 732(T) (middle salt tolerant) and allodiploid strain ATCC 42981 (high salt tolerant). Growth curve modelling in 2 M NaCl-containing media supplemented with or without yeast extract as nitrogen source indicates that moderate salt tolerance of CBS 732(T) mainly depends on nitrogen availability rather than intrinsic inhibitory effects of salt. All the strains produce glycerol and not mannitol under salt stress and use two different glycerol balance strategies. ATCC 42981 produces comparatively more glycerol than Z. sapae and Z. rouxii under standard growth conditions and better retains it intracellularly under salt injuries. Conversely, Z. sapae and Z. rouxii enhance glycerol production under salt stress and intracellularly retain glycerol less efficiently than ATCC 42981. Expression analysis shows that, in diploid Z. sapae and allodiploid ATCC 42981, transcription of gene variants ZrSOD2-22/ZrSOD2 and ZrSOD22 is constitutive and salt unresponsive.The high salinity response in Zygosaccharomyces rouxii complex yeasts was studied by analysing how growth kinetic parameters are affected by transcriptional regulation of Na+/H+ antiporter-encoding ZrSOD genes and metabolically compatible osmolyte accumulation.The high salinity response in Zygosaccharomyces rouxii complex yeasts was studied by analysing how growth kinetic parameters are affected by transcriptional regulation of Na+/H+ antiporter-encoding ZrSOD genes and metabolically compatible osmolyte accumulation. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Personal dose-equivalent conversion coefficients for 1252 radionuclides ENDTITLE Personal dose-equivalent conversion coefficients for 1252 radionuclides ENDTITLES Dose conversion coefficients for radionuclides are useful for routine calculations in radiation protection in industry, medicine and research. They give a simple and often sufficient estimate of dose rates during production, handling and storage of radionuclide sources, based solely on the source’s activity. The latest compilation of such conversion coefficients dates from 20 y ago, based on nuclear decay data published 30 y ago. The present publication provides radionuclide-specific conversion coefficients to personal dose based on the most recent evaluations of nuclear decay data for 1252 radionuclides and fluence-to-dose-equivalent conversion coefficients for monoenergetic radiations. It contains previously unknown conversion coefficients for >400 nuclides and corrects those conversion coefficients that were based on erroneous decay schemes. For the first time, estimates for the protection quantity Hp(3) are included. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
A Bonner Sphere Spectrometer for pulsed fields ENDTITLE A BONNER SPHERE SPECTROMETER FOR PULSED FIELDS ENDTITLES The use of conventional Bonner Sphere Spectrometers (BSS) in pulsed neutron fields (PNF) is limited by the fact that proportional counters, usually employed as the thermal neutron detectors, suffer from dead time losses and show severe underestimation of the neutron interaction rate, which leads to strong distortion of the calculated spectrum. In order to avoid these limitations, an innovative BSS, called BSS-LUPIN, has been developed for measuring in PNF. This paper describes the physical characteristics of the device and its working principle, together with the results of Monte Carlo simulations of its response matrix. The BSS-LUPIN has been tested in the stray neutron field at the CERN Proton Synchrotron, by comparing the spectra obtained with the new device, the conventional CERN BSS and via Monte Carlo simulations. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
SECONDARY NEUTRON DOSES IN A PROTON THERAPY CENTRE ENDTITLE SECONDARY NEUTRON DOSES IN A PROTON THERAPY CENTRE ENDTITLES The formation of secondary high-energy neutrons in proton therapy can be a concern for radiation protection of staff. In this joint intercomparative study (CERN, SCK•CEN and IBA/IRISIB/ULB), secondary neutron doses were assessed with different detectors in several positions in the Proton Therapy Centre, Essen (Germany). The ambient dose equivalent H*(10) was assessed with Berthold LB 6411, WENDI-2, tissue-equivalent proportional counter (TEPC) and Bonner spheres (BS). The personal dose equivalent Hp(10) was measured with two types of active detectors and with bubble detectors. Using spectral and basic angular information, the reference Hp(10) was estimated. Results concerning staff exposure show H*(10) doses between 0.5 and 1 nSv/monitoring unit in a technical room. The LB 6411 showed an underestimation of H*(10), while WENDI-2 and TEPC showed good agreement with the BS data. A large overestimation for Hp(10) was observed for the active personal dosemeters, while the bubble detectors showed only a slight overestimation. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
The small-angle neutron scattering instrument D33 at the Institut Laue–Langevin ENDTITLE The small-angle neutron scattering instrument D33 at the Institut Laue–Langevin ENDTITLES The D33 small-angle neutron scattering (SANS) instrument at the Institut Laue-Langevin (ILL) is the most recent SANS instrument to be built at the ILL. In a project beginning in 2005 and lasting seven years, the concept has been developed, and the instrument designed, manufactured and installed. D33 was commissioned with neutrons during the second half of 2012, fully entering the ILL user programme in 2013. The scientific case required that D33 should provide a wide dynamic range of measured scattering vector magnitude q, flexibility with regard to the instrument resolution, and the provision of polarized neutrons and 3 He spin analysis to facilitate and expand studies in magnetism. In monochromatic mode, a velocity selector and a flexible system of inter-collimation apertures define the neutron beam. A double-chopper system enables a time-of-flight (TOF) mode of operation, allowing an enhanced dynamic q range (q(max)/q(min)) and a flexible wavelength resolution. Two large multitube detectors extend the dynamic q range further, giving q(max)/q(min) similar or equal to 25 in monochromatic mode and a very large q(max)/q(min) > 1000 in TOF mode. The sample zone is large and flexible in configuration, accommodating complex and bulky sample environments, while the position of D33 is such as to allow high magnetic fields at the sample position. The instrument is of general purpose with a performance rivalling that of D22, and is well adapted for SANS studies in scientific disciplines as diverse as solution scattering in biology and soft matter and studies of physics, materials science and magnetism. This article provides a detailed technical description of D33 and its performance and characterization of the individual components, and serves as a technical reference for users of the instrument. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Mechanical Properties and Strain-Induced Filament Degradation of Ex Situ and In Situ MgB2Wires ENDTITLE Mechanical Properties and Strain-Induced Filament Degradation of Ex Situ and In Situ MgB2Wires ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Hysteresis Losses and Effective Jc(B)Scaling Law for ITER Nb3Sn Strands ENDTITLE Hysteresis Losses and Effective Jc(B)Scaling Law for ITER Nb3Sn Strands ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Manufacture and Test of ITER 10-kA HTSCL Prototypes ENDTITLE Manufacture and Test of ITER 10-kA HTSCL Prototypes ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
The Ultra-Stable Magnet of the Mark II Experiment ENDTITLE The Ultra-Stable Magnet of the Mark II Experiment ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Physical Properties of a High-Strength Austenitic Stainless Steel for the Precompression Structure of the ITER Central Solenoid ENDTITLE Physical Properties of a High-Strength Austenitic Stainless Steel for the Precompression Structure of the ITER Central Solenoid ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Three-Dimensional Analysis of the Porosity in MgB2Wires Using FIB Nanotomography ENDTITLE Three-Dimensional Analysis of the Porosity in MgB2Wires Using FIB Nanotomography ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Magnetic Determination of the Current Center Line for the Superconducting ITER Toroidal Field Coils: Results on a Double-Pancake Prototype ENDTITLE Magnetic Determination of the Current Center Line for the Superconducting ITER Toroidal Field Coils: Results on a Double-Pancake Prototype ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
On a Quantum Theory of Relativity ENDTITLE On a Quantum Theory of Relativity ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Starting Manufacture of the ITER Central Solenoid ENDTITLE Starting Manufacture of the ITER Central Solenoid ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
The BEST PATHS Project on MgB2Superconducting Cables for Very High Power Transmission ENDTITLE The BEST PATHS Project on MgB2Superconducting Cables for Very High Power Transmission ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Development of a Superconducting Magnet for a Compact Cyclotron for Radioisotope Production ENDTITLE Development of a Superconducting Magnet for a Compact Cyclotron for Radioisotope Production ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Light Extraction From Scintillating Crystals Enhanced by Photonic Crystal Structures Patterned by Focused Ion Beam ENDTITLE Light Extraction From Scintillating Crystals Enhanced by Photonic Crystal Structures Patterned by Focused Ion Beam ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Measurement of LYSO Intrinsic Light Yield Using Electron Excitation ENDTITLE Measurement of LYSO Intrinsic Light Yield Using Electron Excitation ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Methodologies for the Statistical Analysis of Memory Response to Radiation ENDTITLE Methodologies for the Statistical Analysis of Memory Response to Radiation ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Heavy-Ion Radiation Impact on a 4 Mb FRAM Under Different Test Modes and Conditions ENDTITLE Heavy-Ion Radiation Impact on a 4 Mb FRAM Under Different Test Modes and Conditions ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
The Grumman/Brookhaven High-Brightness, High-Duty Factor RF Gun ENDTITLES Under a joint collaboration between the Brookhaven National Laboratory and the Grumman Corporation, a high- duty factor (> 1%) photocathode RF gun is under construction for use at the ATF facility at BNL. The gun will be capable of producing short « 6 psec) bunches of electrons at high repetition rates (5 kHz), low energy spread « 1.0%), peak currents of > 300 A (after compression) and a total bunch charge in excess of 3 nCo The gun consists of 3-112 cells constructed from GlidCop, an alumina dispersion strengthened copper alloy. Two L.'ldividually phased waveguides are used to power the first two and final two cells. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Neutronic predictors for PWR fuelled with multi-recycled plutonium and applications with the fuel cycle simulation tool CLASS ENDTITLE Neutronic predictors for PWR fuelled with multi-recycled plutonium and applications with the fuel cycle simulation tool CLASS ENDTITLES Dynamic fuel cycle simulation codes model evolving nuclear fuel cycles, and calculate nuclides inventories and material flows in each unit of the cycle. In the nuclear fuel cycle simulation code CLASS (Core Library for Advanced Scenario Simulation), a Fuel Loading Model (FLM) builds a fresh fuel fulfilling the reactor criticality requirement, depending on the available fissile material. Then, a mean cross-sections predictor calculates the mean cross-sections required to perform the fuel depletion in a short calculation time. This work focuses on the elaboration of these models in the case of a PWR-MOXEUS fuel (MOX on Enriched Uranium Support), which allows plutonium mono-recycling and multi-recycling in PWR. These models are built using neural networks. These predictors are trained on a databank composed of 1000 PWR infinite assembly depletion calculations performed using the software MURE (MCNP Utility for Reactor Evolution) based on the transport code MCNP (Monte-Carlo N Particle). Several databanks are tested and the performance of the resulting predictors are compared. The FLM predicts the plutonium content, and potentially the uranium enrichment, required in the fresh fuel. This model is based on a calculation of the infinite multiplication factor performed with an accuracy close to MCNP statistical error. Mean cross-sections prediction allows a deviation lower than 5% on main plutonium isotopes at 75 GWd/t compared to the fuel depletion reference calculation. PWR MOXEUS models are also tested on a balancing scenario. The complex evolution of MOXEUS fresh fuel isotopic composition during the scenario is highlighted. Furthermore, equilibrium fresh fuel isotopic vectors are compared to another study on an equilibrium MOXEUS multi-recycling strategy calculation, showing a good general agreement. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
DUSEL-related Science at LBNL -- Program and Opportunities ENDTITLE DUSEL-related Science at LBNL -- Program and Opportunities ENDTITLES The National Science Foundation is advancing the design of a Deep Underground Science and Engineering Laboratory (DUSEL) at the former Homestake mine in South Dakota. UC Berkeley and LBNL are leading the design effort for the facility and coordinating the definition and integration of the suite of experiments to be coupled to the facility design in the creation of an MREFC (Major Research Equipment and Facility Construction) proposal. The State of South Dakota has marshaled $120M to prepare the site and begin a modest science program at the 4850 ft level. The first physics experiment is anticipated to begin installation in 2009. The current timetable calls for the MREFC Preliminary Design to be assembled by 2010 to be presented to the National Science Board in 2011. This, in turn, indicates that the earliest DUSEL construction start would be FY2013. The MREFC is estimated (before the inclusion of the long baseline neutrino components) at $500--600M, roughly divided evenly between the experimental program and support for the facility. Construction was estimated at 6--8 years. The DOE and NSF are establishing a Joint Oversight Group (JOG) to coordinate the experimental programs and participation in DUSEL. It is anticipated that the JOG would mirror the similar function for the NSF and DOE participation in the LHC, and that DOE-HEP, DOE-NP, and NSF will all participate in the JOG. In parallel with the NSF efforts, DOE-HEP plans to develop a long baseline neutrino program with neutrino beams created at FNAL and aimed at DUSEL. In the P5 report the focus of the program is to pursue CP violation in the lepton sector. The same detectors can also be used for nucleon decay experiments. DOE has indicated that FNAL would be the ''lead lab'' for the long baseline neutrino program and be charged with designing and implementing the neutrino beamline. BNL is to be charged with designing and implementing the detector. The P5 report also emphasizes the importance of dark matter and neutrinoless double beta decay searches. The Nuclear Physics Long Range Plan strongly endorses DUSEL and the associated nuclear physics programs. It mentions, in particular, neutrinoless double beta decay, and accelerator-based nuclear astrophysics measurements as key elements of the DUSEL nuclear physics experimental program. There are numerous fundamental scientific questions that experiments which can naturally be sited at DUSEL can address. LBNL has a long tradition and track record of successful experiments in all of these areas: neutrino physics, dark matter searches, and nuclear astrophysics. Clearly, DUSEL presents many scientific opportunities, and the committee was charged to present a roadmap for LBNL participation, the impact that LBNL is likely to have on experiments at the present level of effort, the value of additional manpower, and opportunities for synergistic Detector R&D activities. The Berkeley community is already deeply involved in a number of experiments and/or proposals, shown in Table 1, that will be relevant to science at DUSEL. The approximate time lines for all projects considered in this report are shown in Table 2. For the DUSEL-related experiments the depth at which they would be located is also shown. Section 2 of this report deals with nuclear astrophysics. Section 3 discusses neutrinoless double beta decays. Section 4 focuses on neutrino oscillations, including the search for CP violation and proton decay. Section 5 deals with dark matter searches. In each section we give a brief overview of that field, review the present Berkeley efforts, and discuss the opportunities going into the future. Section 6 contains our recommendations. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
10-Gb/s Distributed Amplifier-Based VCSEL Driver IC With ESD Protection in 130-nm CMOS ENDTITLE 10-Gb/s Distributed Amplifier-Based VCSEL Driver IC With ESD Protection in 130-nm CMOS ENDTITLES Abstract: This paper presents a low-power 10-Gb/s vertical cavity surface emitting laser (VCSEL) driver integrated circuit (IC) with electrostatic discharge (ESD) protection in the 130-nm CMOS technology. A distributed amplifier (DA)-based modulator is proposed to boost the driver bandwidth. It employs artificial transmission lines to cancel the device parasitic capacitances of the driver. A distributed ESD protection technique is applied to equalize the group delay of the DA to optimize the jitter performance. To minimize the silicon area, the optimal number of DA taps in the proposed modulator has been derived. To compensate for the capacitive load and the channel losses at the output of the driver, a frequency-domain preemphasis scheme is proposed. The proposed DA modulator occupies an area of 0.69 mm2, and the entire driver IC has a die size of 2 mm×2 mm, including the pads. Both electrical and optical tests have been carried out to characterize the performance of the proposed VCSEL driver IC. Measurements at a data rate of 10-Gb/s demonstrate a typical power consumption of 85 mW under a single 2.5 V supply voltage (49 mW, if separate 1.2 and 2.5 V supplies are used) and an rms jitter of 0.63 and 1.12 ps for the electrical test and optical test, respectively. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Damage evolution in a stainless steel bar undergoing phase transformation under torsion at cryogenic temperatures ENDTITLE Damage evolution in a stainless steel bar undergoing phase transformation under torsion at cryogenic temperatures ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Variable RBE in proton therapy: comparison of different model predictions and their influence on clinical-like scenarios ENDTITLE Variable RBE in proton therapy: comparison of different model predictions and their influence on clinical-like scenarios ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Preclinical in vivo application of 152Tb-DOTANOC: a radiolanthanide for PET imaging ENDTITLE Preclinical in vivo application of 152Tb-DOTANOC: a radiolanthanide for PET imaging ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
The 68mCu/68Cu isotope as a new probe for hyperfine studies: The nuclear moments ENDTITLE The 68mCu/68Cu isotope as a new probe for hyperfine studies: The nuclear moments ENDTITLES Time Differential Perturbed Angular Correlation of γ-rays (TDPAC) experiments were performed for the first time in the decay of 68m Cu $(6^{-}, 721\ \text{keV}, 3.75\ \text{min})$ produced at the ISOLDE facility at CERN. Due to the short half-life of the source isotope, the measurements were carried out online. The intermediate state $(2^{+}, 84.1\ \text{keV}, 7.84\ \text{ns})$ offers the unique opportunity to study the electromagnetic fields acting at a copper probe in condensed matter via hyperfine interactions. The present work allowed determination of the nuclear moments for this state. The electric quadrupole moment $|Q(2^{+},84.1\ \text{keV})|=0.110(3)\ \text{b}$ was obtained from an experiment performed in Cu2O and the magnetic dipole moment $|\mu|=2.857(6)\ \mu_\text{N}$ from measurements in cobalt and nickel foils. The results are discussed in the framework of shell model calculations and the additivity rule for nuclear moments with respect to the robustness of the N = 40 sub-shell. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Preparation and luminescence properties of ZnO:Ga – polystyrene composite scintillator ENDTITLE Preparation and luminescence properties of ZnO:Ga – polystyrene composite scintillator ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Next generation multi-scale biophysical characterization of high precision cancer particle radiotherapy using clinical proton, helium-, carbon- and oxygen ion beams ENDTITLE Next generation multi-scale biophysical characterization of high precision cancer particle radiotherapy using clinical proton, helium-, carbon- and oxygen ion beams ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Metabolomic Profile of Low–Copy Number Carriers at the Salivary α-Amylase Gene Suggests a Metabolic Shift Toward Lipid-Based Energy Production ENDTITLE Metabolomic Profile of Low–Copy Number Carriers at the Salivary α-Amylase Gene Suggests a Metabolic Shift Toward Lipid-Based Energy Production ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Unexpectedly acidic nanoparticles formed in dimethylamine–ammonia–sulfuric-acid nucleation experiments at CLOUD ENDTITLE Unexpectedly acidic nanoparticles formed in dimethylamine–ammonia–sulfuric-acid nucleation experiments at CLOUD ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Aqueous phase oxidation of sulphur dioxide by ozone in cloud droplets ENDTITLE Aqueous phase oxidation of sulphur dioxide by ozone in cloud droplets ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Hygroscopicity of nanoparticles produced from homogeneous nucleation in the CLOUD experiments ENDTITLE Hygroscopicity of nanoparticles produced from homogeneous nucleation in the CLOUD experiments ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Phase transition observations and discrimination of small cloud particles by light polarization in expansion chamber experiments ENDTITLE Phase transition observations and discrimination of small cloud particles by light polarization in expansion chamber experiments ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Observation of viscosity transition in α-pinene secondary organic aerosol ENDTITLE Observation of viscosity transition in <i>α</i>-pinene secondary organic aerosol ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Heterogeneous ice nucleation of viscous secondary organic aerosol produced from ozonolysis of <i>α</i>-pinene ENDTITLE Heterogeneous ice nucleation of viscous secondary organic aerosol produced from ozonolysis of <i>α</i>-pinene ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
CLIFFORD AND EXTENSOR CALCULUS AND THE RIEMANN AND RICCI EXTENSOR FIELDS OF DEFORMED STRUCTURES (M, ∇′, η) AND (M, ∇, g) ENDTITLE CLIFFORD AND EXTENSOR CALCULUS AND THE RIEMANN AND RICCI EXTENSOR FIELDS OF DEFORMED STRUCTURES (M, ∇′, η) AND (M, ∇, g) ENDTITLES Here (the last paper in a series of four) we end our presentation of the basics of a systematical approach to the differential geometry of a smooth manifold M (supporting a metric field g and a general connection ∇) which uses the geometric algebras of multivector and extensors (fields) developed in previous papers. The theory of the Riemann and Ricci fields of a triple (M, ∇, g) is investigated for each particular open set U ⊂ M through the introduction of a geometric structure on U, i.e. a triple (U, γ, g), where γ is a general connection field on U and g is a metric extensor field associated to g. The relation between geometrical structures related to gauge extensor fields is clarified. These geometries may be said to be deformations one of each other. Moreover, we study the important case of a class of deformed Levi–Civita geometrical structures and prove key theorems about them that are important in the formulation of geometric theories of the gravitational field. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
A Monte Carlo approach for determining cluster evaporation rates from concentration measurements ENDTITLE A Monte Carlo approach for determining cluster evaporation rates from concentration measurements ENDTITLES Evaporation rates of small negatively charged sulfuric acid–ammonia clusters are determined by combining detailed cluster formation simulations with cluster distributions measured in the CLOUD experiment at CERN. The analysis is performed by varying the evaporation rates with Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC), running cluster formation simulations with each new set of evaporation rates and comparing the obtained cluster distributions to the measurements. In a second set of simulations, the fragmentation of clusters in the mass spectrometer due to energetic collisions is studied by treating also the fragmentation probabilities as unknown parameters and varying them with MCMC. This second set of simulations results in a better fit to the experimental data, suggesting that a large fraction of the observed HSO4− and HSO4− ⋅ H2SO4 signals may result from fragmentation of larger clusters, most importantly the HSO4− ⋅ (H2SO4)2 trimer. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Effect of ions on the measurement of sulfuric acid in the CLOUD experiment at CERN ENDTITLE Effect of ions on the measurement of sulfuric acid in the CLOUD experiment at CERN ENDTITLES Ternary aerosol nucleation experiments were conducted in the CLOUD chamber at CERN in order to investigate the influence of ions on new particle formation. Neutral and ion-induced nucleation experiments, i.e. without and with the presence of ions, respectively, were carried out under precisely controlled conditions. The sulfuric acid concentration was measured with a chemical ionisation mass spectrometer (CIMS) during the new particle formation experiments. The added ternary trace gases were ammonia (NH3), dimethylamine (DMA, C2H7N) or oxidised products of pinanediol (PD, C10H18O2). When pinanediol was introduced into the chamber, an increase in the mass spectrometric signal used to determine the sulfuric acid concentration (m/z 97, i.e. HSO4−) was observed due to ions from the CLOUD chamber. The enhancement was only observed during ion-induced nucleation measurements by using either galactic cosmic rays (GCRs) or the proton synchrotron (PS) pion beam for the ion generation, respectively. The ion effect typically involved an increase in the apparent sulfuric acid concentration by a factor of ~ 2 to 3 and was qualitatively verified by the ion measurements with an atmospheric-pressure interface-time of flight (APi-TOF) mass spectrometer. By applying a high-voltage (HV) clearing field inside the CLOUD chamber, the ion effect on the CIMS measurement was completely eliminated since, under these conditions, small ions are swept from the chamber in about 1 s. In order to exclude the ion effect and to provide corrected sulfuric acid concentrations during the GCR and PS beam nucleation experiments, a parameterisation was derived that utilises the trace gas concentrations and the UV light intensity as input parameters. Atmospheric sulfuric acid measurements with a CIMS showed an insignificant ion effect. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
On the evolution law of weak discontinuities for hyperbolic quasi-linear systems ENDTITLE On the evolution law of weak discontinuities for hyperbolic quasi-linear systems ENDTITLES We show that the law of propagation of weak discontinuities obtained by A. Jeffrey is in agreement with the Bernoulli's law found by other authors. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
On the composition of ammonia–sulfuric-acid ion clusters during aerosol particle formation ENDTITLE On the composition of ammonia–sulfuric-acid ion clusters during aerosol particle formation ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Elemental composition and clustering behaviour of α-pinene oxidation products for different oxidation conditions ENDTITLE Elemental composition and clustering behaviour of α-pinene oxidation products for different oxidation conditions ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Experimental investigation of ion–ion recombination under atmospheric conditions ENDTITLE Experimental investigation of ion–ion recombination under atmospheric conditions ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Motion of particles near a magnetized tidal charged black hole ENDTITLE Motion of particles near a magnetized tidal charged black hole ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Technical Note: Using DEG-CPCs at upper tropospheric temperatures ENDTITLE Technical Note: Using DEG-CPCs at upper tropospheric temperatures ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Thermodynamics of the formation of sulfuric acid dimers in the binary (H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub>–H<sub>2</sub>O) and ternary (H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub>–H<sub>2</sub>O–NH<sub>3</sub>) system ENDTITLE Thermodynamics of the formation of sulfuric acid dimers in the binary (H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub>–H<sub>2</sub>O) and ternary (H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub>–H<sub>2</sub>O–NH<sub>3</sub>) system ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Localization of small leaks on the helium vessel of a cryostat ENDTITLE Localization of small leaks on the helium vessel of a cryostat ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Operation of a forced flow superfluid helium test facility and first results ENDTITLE Operation of a forced flow superfluid helium test facility and first results ENDTITLES Cooling techniques based on forced flow He II appear as a possible solution for very large superconducting magnet systems with field strengths in the order of 10 T. To prepare the definition of such cooling systems, a He II test facility of significant size has been built at CEN Grenoble, in collaboration with CERN in Geneva and the EURATOM-CEA fusion research group in Cadarache, France. Its main features are a nearly 230 m long test section, 28 mm in diameter, and mass flow rates of up to 100 g/s of 1.8 K He. First experimental results are presented and compared with solutions predicted by a model calculation. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Long flexible transfer lines for gaseous and liquid helium ENDTITLE Long flexible transfer lines for gaseous and liquid helium ENDTITLES Screened flexible four-fold coaxial transfer lines for gaseous and liquid helium with lengths of 5 to 50 m have been successfully built and tested. The lines for gaseous helium have to supply and return a mass flow of 5 to 10 g s−1 at temperatures ranging between 350 and 20 K for cooldown or warmup of superconducting magnets. The lines for liquid helium have to supply up to 100 ℓ h−1 for final cooldown or up to 25 ℓ h−1 for normal operation of superconducting magnets. The hydrodynamic and thermal performance characteristics of the lines have been measured. The results are encouraging and it can be envisaged to use this kind of lines for superconducting magnets in high energy accelerators. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Accelerator Technology: Cryogenics ENDTITLE 8.3 Cryogenics ENDTITLES This document is part of Subvolume C 'Accelerators and Colliders' of Volume 21 'Elementary Particles' of Landolt-Börnstein - Group I 'Elementary Particles, Nuclei and Atoms'. It contains the the Section '8.3 Cryogenics' of the Chapter '8 Accelerator Technology' with the content: 8.3 Cryogenics 8.3.1 Introduction 8.3.2 Cryogenic Fluids 8.3.3 Materials at Low Temperatures 8.3.4 Heat Transfer and Thermal Design 8.3.5 Refrigeration and Liquefaction ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Superconducting instrumentation for high Reynolds turbulence experiments with low temperature gaseous helium ENDTITLE Superconducting instrumentation for high Reynolds turbulence experiments with low temperature gaseous helium ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Pressure drop and transient heat transport in forced flow single phase helium II at high Reynoldsnumbers ENDTITLE Pressure drop and transient heat transport in forced flow single phase helium II at high Reynoldsnumbers ENDTITLES Pressure drop and transient heat transport measurements had been performed in the superfluid helium test loop at CEA/CEN-Grenoble, France. Single phase helium II was circulated through a 28 mm I.D. tube, over a length of 200 m for mass flow rates between 0.02 and 0.1 kg/s. Steady-state pressure drop measurements allow us to estimate the friction factor for Reynolds numbers in the 106 range. Rectangular heat pulses were applied at mid-length, and the fluid temperature was measured at several locations along the flow, upstream and downstream. A code has been developed which uses the two-fluid model to simulate time-dependent heat transport helium 11 flow. Simulation results are in good agreement with experimental measurements. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Cryogenic and magnetic tests of the twin aperture prototype dipole in the Saclay test facility ENDTITLE Cryogenic and magnetic tests of the twin aperture prototype dipole in the Saclay test facility ENDTITLES The authors describe the test facility and the cryogenic and magnetic measurements performed on the twin aperture prototype (TAP) dipole for the CERN Large Hadron Collider (LHC). The magnet, designed by CERN and built by European industries, was tested in a facility built at CE Saclay. The focus is on the cryogenic system, which enables prototype magnets to be tested in superfluid helium; on the data acquisition systems, including a system for magnetic measurements; and on the results which were obtained during the tests. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Study of QED radiative corrections to charged lepton leg in neutrino-nucleon interactions ENDTITLES There is a recent renewal of interest to include radiative corrections to neutrino charged-current quasi-elastic(CCQE) scattering into modern neutrino interaction generators[1][2]. This piece of work serves as a preliminary study of the significance of such radiative corrections for the T2K experiment. The theoretical background relevant to the discussion of such QED radiative corrections is provided by a brief review on Fermi’s four-fermion theory, Glashow-Salam-Weinberg theory, neutrino oscillations and the see-saw mechanism. Using the T2K experiment’s muon neutrino flux predictions at the Super-Kamiokande detector, radiative corrections to muon neutrino CCQE events were calculated. Calculation of the radiative corrections required information about the double differential cross-section of the interaction. This is extracted from Monte Carlo CCQE events generated using a neutrino interaction generator, NEUT. The radiative corrections at the peak muon energy at the SK detector is found to be −22.41% which is not small but further detailed investigations are required before comparing it to the observed discrepancy between data and simulations. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Neutrino Cross Sections ENDTITLES The Fermilab wide band neutrino spectrum spans an energy range where a number of neutrino scattering mechanisms are important. In this paper we will present neutrino cross sections separately for 3 processes: quasi-elastic, resonance production, and deep inelastic scattering. We will attempt to extend the calculations where necessary to incorporate $\nu_{\tau}$ interactions. We will then discuss the construction of $\sigma_{\rm{tot}}$ from the above three processes. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
On the Cauchy problem for the theory of gravitation with nonlinear Lagrangian ENDTITLE On the Cauchy problem for the theory of gravitation with nonlinear Lagrangian ENDTITLES For a theory of gravitation with nonlinear Lagrangian it is shown that the Cauchy problem is well posed. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Normal forms of hierarchies of integrable PDEs, Frobenius manifolds and Gromov - Witten invariants ENDTITLE Normal forms of hierarchies of integrable PDEs, Frobenius manifolds and Gromov - Witten invariants ENDTITLES We present a project of classification of a certain class of bihamiltonian 1+1 PDEs depending on a small parameter. Our aim is to embed the theory of Gromov - Witten invariants of all genera into the theory of integrable systems. The project is focused at describing normal forms of the PDEs and their local bihamiltonian structures satisfying certain simple axioms. A Frobenius manifold or its degeneration is associated to every bihamiltonian structure of our type. The main result is a universal loop equation on the jet space of a semisimple Frobenius manifold that can be used for perturbative reconstruction of the integrable hierarchy. We show that first few terms of the perturbative expansion correctly reproduce the universal identities between intersection numbers of Gromov - Witten classes and their descendents. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Soliton equations, vertex operators, and simple singularities ENDTITLE Soliton equations, vertex operators, and simple singularities ENDTITLE Soliton equations, vertex operators, and simple singularities ENDTITLES We prove the equivalence of two hierarchies of soliton equations associated to a simply-laced finite Dynkin diagram. The first was defined by Kac and Wakimoto using the principal realization of the basic representations of the corresponding affine Kac-Moody algebra. The second was defined in arXiv:math/0307176 using the Frobenius structure on the local ring of the corresponding simple singularity. We also obtain a deformation of the principal realization of the basic representation over the space of miniversal deformations of the corresponding singularity. As a by-product, we compute the operator product expansions of pairs of vertex operators defined in terms of Picard-Lefschetz periods for more general singularities. Thus, we establish a surprising link between twisted vertex operators and deformation theory of singularities. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Cryostat Design ENDTITLE Cryostat Design ENDTITLES This book enables the reader to learn the fundamental and applied aspects of practical cryostat design by examining previous design choices and resulting cryostat performance. Through a series of extended case studies the book presents an overview of existing cryostat design covering a wide range of cryostat types and applications, including the magnet cryostats that comprise the majority of the Large Hadron Collider at CERN, space-borne cryostats containing sensors operating below 1 K, and large cryogenic liquid storage vessels. It starts with an introductory section on the principles of cryostat design including practical data and equations. This section is followed by a series of case studies on existing cryostats, describing the specific requirements of the cryostat, the challenges involved and the design choices made along with the resulting performance of the cryostat. The cryostat examples used in the studies are chosen to cover a broad range of cryostat applications and the authors of each case are leading experts in the field, most of whom participated in the design of the cryostats being described. The concluding chapter offers an overview of lessons learned and summarises some key hints and tips for practical cryostat design. The book will help the reader to expand their knowledge of many disciplines required for good cryostat design, including the cryogenic properties of materials, heat transfer and thermal insulation, instrumentation, safety, structures and seals. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Twenty-Three Kilometres of Superfluid Helium Cryostats for the Superconducting Magnets of the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) ENDTITLE Twenty-Three Kilometres of Superfluid Helium Cryostats for the Superconducting Magnets of the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) ENDTITLES The Large Hadron Collider (LHC) at CERN is the world’s largest scientific instrument. The 1600 “high-field” superconducting magnets that make up the 23 km circumference accelerator ring represent the largest use of superfluid helium (He II) to date. This chapter describes the design evolution of the LHC magnet cryostats with particular emphasis on the He II cooling system, thermal insulation system and structural supports. Prototype testing, series production, installation and commissioning of these cryostats is also discussed. Numerous figures and tables illustrate the cryostat and present performance results. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Cryogenics for the Large Hadron Collider ENDTITLE Cryogenics for the Large Hadron Collider ENDTITLES Abstract: The Large Hadron Collider (LHC), a 26.7 km circumference superconducting accelerator equipped with high-field magnets operating in superfluid helium below 1.9 K, has now fully entered construction at CERN, the European Laboratory for Particle Physics. The heart of the LHC cryogenic system is the quasi-isothermal magnet cooling scheme, in which flowing two-phase saturated superfluid helium removes the heat load from the 36000 ton cold mass, immersed in some 400 m/sup 3/ static pressurised superfluid helium. The LHC also makes use of supercritical helium for nonisothermal cooling of the beam screens which intercept most of the dynamic heat loads at higher temperature. Although not used in normal operation, liquid nitrogen will provide the source of refrigeration for precooling the machine. Refrigeration for the LHC is produced in eight large refrigerators, each with an equivalent capacity of about 18 kW at 4.5 K, completed by 1.8 K refrigeration units making use of several stages of hydrodynamic cold compressors. The cryogenic fluids are distributed to the cryomagnet strings by a compound cryogenic distribution line circling the tunnel. Procurement contracts for the major components of the LHC cryogenic system have been adjudicated to industry, and their progress will be briefly reported. Besides construction proper, the study and development of cryogenics for the LHC has resulted in salient advances in several fields of cryogenic engineering, which we shall also review. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Detection of heat inleaks in cryogenic enclosures by infrared thermal imaging ENDTITLE Detection of heat inleaks in cryogenic enclosures by infrared thermal imaging ENDTITLES Localized heat inleaks in cryogenic enclosures can be detected by the ‘cool spots’ they produce on the ambient temperature surface of the vessel outer walls. Infrared thermography, a simple technique permitting detailed thermal mapping of surfaces, has been successfully used for locating such ‘cool spots’ on cryogenic vessels and transfer lines. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Astrophysical Probes of Fundamental Physics ENDTITLE Astrophysical Probes of Fundamental Physics ENDTITLES I review the theoretical motivation for varying fundamental couplings and discuss how these measurements can be used to constrain a number of fundamental physics scenarios that would otherwise be inacessible to experiment. As a case study I will focus on the relation between varying couplings and dark energy, and explain how varying coupling measurements can be used to probe the nature of dark energy, with important advantages over the standard methods. Assuming that the current observational evidence for varying α. and μ is correct, a several-sigma detection of dynamical dark energy is feasible within a few years, using currently operational ground-based facilities. With forthcoming instruments like CODEX, a high-accuracy reconstruction of the equation of state may be possible all the way up to redshift z ∼ 4. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Effects of radiation and their consequences for the performance of the forward calorimeters in the CMS experiment ENDTITLE Effects of radiation and their consequences for the performance of the forward calorimeters in the CMS experiment ENDTITLES The experiments at the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) will have to deal with unprecedented radiation levels. In the large-rapidity regions, close to the beam pipe, these levels reach megagrays per year. The detectors to be installed in these regions, the HF Calorimeters, are designed to operate under these conditions. In this paper, we describe the results of studies in which a prototype calorimeter was exposed to radiation of the type and intensity expected at the LHC. These studies made it possible to estimate the effects of this radiation on the response and the resolution of the calorimeter as a function of time during LHC operation. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Growth of the nonbaryonic dark matter theory ENDTITLE Growth of the nonbaryonic dark matter theory ENDTITLES The evidence that has accumulated since the 1930s is that the mass of the Universe is dominated by an exotic nonbaryonic form of matter largely draped around the galaxies. This dark matter approximates an initially low-pressure gas of particles that interact only with gravity, but we know little more than that. Searches for detection thus must follow many difficult paths to a great discovery: what the Universe is made of. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Timing performance of ZnO:Ga nanopowder composite scintillators ENDTITLE Timing performance of ZnO:Ga nanopowder composite scintillators ENDTITLES The implementation of nanocrystal-based composite scintilla-tors as a new generation of ultrafast particle detectors is ex-plored using ZnO:Ga nanopowder. Samples are characterized with a spectral-time resolved photon counting system and pulsed X-rays, followed by coincidence time resolution(CTR) measurements under 511 keV gamma excitation. Results are comparable to CTR values obtained using bulk inorganic scintillators. Bringing the ZnO:Ga nanocrystal’s timing performance to radiation detectors could pave the research path towards sub-20 ps time resolution as shown in this contribution. However, an efficiency boost when placing nanopowders in a transparent host constitutes the main challenge in order to benefit from sub-nanosecond recombination times. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Temporal cardiac remodeling post-myocardial infarction: dynamics and prognostic implications in personalized medicine ENDTITLE Temporal cardiac remodeling post-myocardial infarction: dynamics and prognostic implications in personalized medicine ENDTITLES Despite dramatic improvements in short-term mortality rates following myocardial infarction (MI), long-term survival for MI patients who progress to heart failure remains poor. MI occurs when the left ventricle (LV) is deprived of oxygen for a sufficient period of time to induce irreversible necrosis of the myocardium. The LV response to MI involves significant tissue, cellular, and molecular level modifications, as well as substantial hemodynamic changes that feedback negatively to amplify the response. Inflammation to remove necrotic myocytes and fibroblast activation to form a scar are key wound healing responses that are highly variable across individuals. Few biomarkers of early remodeling stages are currently clinically adopted. The discovery of underlying pathophysiological mechanisms and associated novel biomarkers has the potential of improving prognostic capability and therapeutic monitoring. Combining these biomarkers with other prominent ones could constitute a powerful diagnostic and prognostic tool that directly reflects the pathophysiological remodeling of the LV. Understanding temporal remodeling at the tissue, cellular, and molecular level and its link to a well-defined set of biomarkers at early stages post-MI is a prerequisite for improving personalized care and devising more successful therapeutic interventions. Here we summarize the integral mechanisms that occur during early cardiac remodeling in the post-MI setting and highlight the most prominent biomarkers for assessing disease progression. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Optimizing the data-collection time of a large-scale data-acquisition system through a simulation framework ENDTITLE Optimizing the data-collection time of a large-scale data-acquisition system through a simulation framework ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
CXCL10 Is a Circulating Inflammatory Marker in Patients with Advanced Heart Failure: a Pilot Study ENDTITLE CXCL10 Is a Circulating Inflammatory Marker in Patients with Advanced Heart Failure: a Pilot Study ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
A constant conflict ENDTITLE A constant conflict ENDTITLES Narrowing down the value of the Hubble constant has been problematic — probably a manifestation of the dark-energy mystery ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Unveiling the radio cosmos ENDTITLE Unveiling the radio cosmos ENDTITLES Using a radio telescope with no moving parts, the dark energy speeding up the expansion of the Universe can be probed in unprecedented detail ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Radiological characterization of printed circuit boards for future elimination ENDTITLE Radiological characterization of printed circuit boards for future elimination ENDTITLES Electronic components like printed circuit boards (PCBs) are commonly used in CERN's accelerator complex. During their lifetime some of these PCBs are exposed to a radiation field of protons, neutrons and pions and are activated. In view of their disposal towards the appropriate final repository, a radiological characterization must be performed. The present work proposes a general characterization procedure based on the definition of a reference chemical composition, on the calculation of the corresponding radionuclide inventory and on the measurement of a tracer radionuclide. This method has been validated with real-life cases of electronic boards which were exposed to the typical radiation fields in CERN's accelerators. The activation studies demonstrate that silver is the key element with respect to the radiological characterization of electronic waste due to the production of Ag-110m and Ag-108m. A sensitivity analysis shows that the waiting time is the main parameter affecting the radionuclide inventory. Results also indicate that, as is the case of other families of radioactive waste, an accurate assessment of the radiological inventory of PCBs would require the precise knowledge of their chemical composition, as well as the radiation field to which they were exposed. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Hydrogen production via methane pyrolysis in a liquid metal bubble column reactor with a packed bed ENDTITLE Hydrogen production via methane pyrolysis in a liquid metal bubble column reactor with a packed bed ENDTITLES Methane pyrolysis experiments using a quartz glass-steel bubble column reactor filled with liquid tin and cylindrical quartz glass rings serving as a packed bed were conducted at various liquid metal temperature levels in the range of 930–1175 °C. Besides the liquid metal temperature, special attention was paid to the influence of the feed gas volume flow rate in the range of 50–200 mln/min and the inlet feed gas dilution with nitrogen. Increasing liquid metal temperatures resulted in increasing hydrogen yields, leading to a maximum hydrogen yield of 78% at 1175 °C and 50 mln/min methane volume flow rate. Within all experimental runs, less than 1.5 mol-% intermediate products were detected in the product gas. The produced carbon appeared as a powder consisting of flake shaped agglomerations in the size range of 15–20 μm, wherein the particle size varied from 40 nm to 100 nm. During the experiments, the produced carbon was completely separated and accumulated at the top surface of the liquid metal. Only minor quantities were transported with the off gas stream. Within the liquid metal inventory, a thin carbon layer of about 10 μm, probably partly showing the formation of nanotubes, in the hot reaction zone, had been deposited on the quartz glass reactor wall. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
An enhanced component based model for steel connection in a hybrid coupled shear wall structure: Development, calibration and experimental validation ENDTITLE An enhanced component based model for steel connection in a hybrid coupled shear wall structure: Development, calibration and experimental validation ENDTITLES In the present paper the development, calibration and experimental validation of two component-based models of dissipative steel links connecting a reinforced concrete wall to a steel gravity frame is presented. The dissipative capacity of such structures is greatly influenced by the effective hysteretic behavior of the wall-to-column coupling system. Within the present work, experimental tests results on two different configurations of wall-to-column coupling system are presented. The development and calibration of two non-linear cyclic component-based models, one for each configuration, are described, allowing a better understanding of the force transmission mechanisms and their influence on the global structural behavior. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Temperature and Energy of 4-Dimensional Axisymmetric Black Holes from Entropic Force ENDTITLE Temperature and Energy of 4-Dimensional Axisymmetric Black Holes from Entropic Force ENDTITLES We investigate the temperature and energy on holographic screens for 4- dimensional axisymmetric black holes with the entropic force idea proposed by Verlinde. According to the principle of thermal equilibrium, the location of holographic screen outside the axisymmetric black hole horizon is not a equivalent radius surface. The location of isothermal holographic screen outside the axisymmetric black hole horizon is obtained. Using the equipartition rule, we derive the correction expression of energy of isothermal holographic screen. When holographic screens are far away the black hole horizon, the entropic force of charged rotating particles can be expressed as Newton’s law of gravity.When the screen crosses the event horizon, the temperature of the screen agrees with the Hawking temperature and the entropic force gives rise to the surface gravity for both of the black holes. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
A new quantization condition for parity-violating three-dimensional gravity ENDTITLES (2+1)-dimensional gravity with a negative cosmological constant is a topological theory with no local degrees of freedom. When confined to compact universes which are topologically genus g Riemann surfaces times time, its classical phase space is the cotangent bundle of the moduli space of Riemann surfaces. We consider the quantization of moduli space itself, emerging as the zero-momentum slice of this phase space. When a parity-violating ChernSimons term is added to the gravitational action, a nontrivial symplectic form is induced on this slice which is a multiple of the Weil-Petersson K¨ahler form. By demanding that this symplectic form integrate to 2π~ times an integer on every nontrivial two-cycle in moduli space—which is a necessary condition for the system to be quantizable—we find a new quantization condition on the Chern-Simons coupling k 0 . Our result strongly suggests that k 0 must be an integer multiple of 24 in order to define a self-consistent theory of quantum gravity ENDABSTRACTS CORE
A Gauss–Bonnet Cosmology with an Effective Time-Dependent Scalar Potential ENDTITLE A Gauss–Bonnet Cosmology with an Effective Time-Dependent Scalar Potential ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Most frequent value statistics and distribution of 7Li abundance observations ENDTITLE Most frequent value statistics and distribution of 7Li abundance observations ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
On the universality of Einstein equations ENDTITLE On the universality of Einstein equations ENDTITLES It is proved that a Lagrangian field theory based on a linear connection in space-time is equivalent to Einstein's general relativity interacting with additional matter fields. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
A Catalog Sample of Low-mass Galaxies Observed in X-Rays with Central Candidate Black Holes ENDTITLE A catalogue sample of low mass galaxies observed in X-rays with central candidate black holes ENDTITLE A Catalog Sample of Low-mass Galaxies Observed in X-Rays with Central Candidate Black Holes ENDTITLES We present a sample of $X$-ray selected candidate black holes in 51 low mass galaxies with $z\le 0.055$ {and mass up to $10^{10}$ M$_{\odot}$} obtained by cross-correlating the NASA-SLOAN Atlas with the 3XMM catalogue. {We have also searched in the available catalogues for radio counterparts of the black hole candidates and find that 19 of the previously selected sources have also a radio counterpart.} Our results show that about $37\%$ of the galaxies of our sample host { an $X$-ray source} (associated to a radio counterpart) spatially coincident with the galaxy center, in agreement with { other recent works}. For these {\it nuclear} sources, the $X$-ray/radio fundamental plane relation allows one to estimate the mass of the (central) candidate black holes which results to be in the range $10^{4}-2\times10^{8}$ M$_{\odot}$ (with median value of $\simeq 3\times 10^7$ M$_{\odot}$ and eight candidates having mass below $10^{7}$ M$_{\odot}$). This result, while suggesting that $X$-ray emitting black holes in low-mass galaxies may have had a key role in the evolution of such systems, makes even more urgent to explain how such massive objects formed in galaxies. {Of course, dedicated follow-up observations both in the $X$-ray and radio bands, as well as in the optical, are necessary in order to confirm our results ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Hodge integrals and invariants of the unknot ENDTITLE Hodge integrals and invariants of the unknot ENDTITLE Hodge integrals and invariants of the unknot ENDTITLES We prove the Gopakumar-Marino-Vafa formula for special cubic Hodge integrals. The GMV formula arises from Chern-Simons/string duality applied to the unknot in the three sphere. The GMV formula is a q-analog of the ELSV formula for linear Hodge integrals. We find a system of bilinear localization equations relating linear and special cubic Hodge integrals. The GMV formula then follows easily from the ELSV formula. An operator form of the GMV formula is presented in the last section of the paper. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Versatile Ion-polarized Techniques On-line (VITO) experiment at ISOLDE-CERN ENDTITLE Versatile Ion-polarized Techniques On-line (VITO) experiment at ISOLDE-CERN ENDTITLES The VITO (Versatile Ion-polarized Techniques Online) project is a new experimental setup at the ISOLDE facility at CERN. VITO is a dedicated beam line for producing laser-induced spin-polarized beams of both, atoms and ions, and it has been commissioned in response to the continuously growing demand for the use of spin-polarized beams. The new VITO beam line is a modification of the formerly existing ultra-high vacuum beam line, connecting ASPIC (Apparatus for Surface Physics and Interfaces at CERN), and it has been under construction since the beginning of 2014. Once fully commissioned, VITO will open up numerous possibilities for carrying out multidisciplinary experiments in the areas of nuclear and solid state physics, fundamental interaction physics and biophysics. In its final stage the VITO beam line will provide three fully independent experimental stations: UHV chamber for material science applications, a β-asymmetry station where highly-polarized ions will be available, and a central open-end station suitable for travelling experiments. The VITO beam line will operate in two different modes providing either beams of spin-polarized atoms or ions, or non-polarized ion beams to all three end stations operating from 10−10 mbar to 50 mbar. Recent experimental campaigns with stable and radioactive beams have allowed for testing VITO’s constituent parts and have demonstrated 96% of ion beam transmission to the collection chamber installed on the central station. The first experimental results obtained with on-line Perturbed Angular Correlation (PAC) spectroscopy using 68mCu ion-beams will be briefly discussed. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
AstroBox2 – Detector for low-energy β -delayed particle detection ENDTITLE AstroBox2 – Detector for low-energy β -delayed particle detection ENDTITLES Efficient suppression of β-background is essential for studies of low-energy β-delayed charged particle decays of astrophysical interest. A promising method for such studies has been a micro pattern gas amplifier detector where the sample is implanted into the gas volume and the decays that follow are observed with high gain and signal to noise ratio. An upgraded version of the original AstroBox detector has been built and commissioned at Texas A&M University. Here a description of the new AstroBox2 detector is given, selected results from the commissioning tests are presented, and future perspectives discussed. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Upgrade of the TAMU MDM-focal plane detector with MicroMegas technology ENDTITLE Upgrade of the TAMU MDM-focal plane detector with MicroMegas technology ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Characterization of uranium carbide target materials to produce neutron-rich radioactive beams ENDTITLE Characterization of uranium carbide target materials to produce neutron-rich radioactive beams ENDTITLES In the framework of a R&D program aiming to develop uranium carbide (UCx) targets for radioactive nuclear beams, the Institut de Physique Nucléaire d’Orsay (IPNO) has developed an experimental setup to characterize the release of various fission fragments from UCx samples at high temperature. The results obtained in a previous study have demonstrated the feasibility of the method and started to correlate the structural properties of the samples and their behavior in terms of nuclear reaction product release. In the present study, seven UCx samples have been systematically characterized in order to better understand the correlation between their physicochemical characteristics and release properties. Two very different samples, the first one composed of dense UC and the second one of highly porous UCx made of multi-wall carbon nanotubes, were provided by the ActILab (ENSAR) collaboration. The others were synthesized at IPNO. The systems for irradiation and heating necessary for the release studies have been improved with respect to those used in previous studies. The results show that the open porosity is hardly the limiting factor for the fission product release. The homogeneity of the microstructure and the pore size distribution contributes significantly to the increase of the release. The use of carbon nanotubes in place of traditional micrometric graphite particles appears to be promising, even if the homogeneity of the microstructure can still be enhanced. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Parametric study of a high current–density EBIS Charge Breeder regarding Two Stream plasma Instability (TSI) ENDTITLE Parametric study of a high current–density EBIS Charge Breeder regarding Two Stream plasma Instability (TSI) ENDTITLES In this paper we report on our results from the design study of an advanced Electron Beam Ion Source (EBIS) based Charge Breeder (ECB). The ECB should fulfill the requirements of the HIE-ISOLDE upgrade, and if possible be adapted for ion injection into TSR@ISOLDE, as well as serve as an early prototype of a future EURISOL ECB. Fulfilling the HIE-ISOLDE/TSR@ISOLDE specifications requires simultaneous increase in electron beam energy, current and current density in order to provide the requested beams with proper charge state, high intensity and with a specified pulse repetition rate. We have carried out a study on the technical requirements of the ECB. The obtained parameters were optimized to comply with technical limitations arising from the electron beam technology and plasma physics in an ECB ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Time dependence of silica optical properties during the implantation of fast hydrogen ions: Experiment ENDTITLE Time dependence of silica optical properties during the implantation of fast hydrogen ions: Experiment ENDTITLES The luminescence technique has been applied to study long-time hydrogen ion implantation of silica. It was found that the changes of the spectrum shape for the luminescence radiation are caused by diffusion of hydrogen from the implanted layer. Analysis of the luminescence radiation spectra showed that hydrogen passivated the non-bridging oxygen hole centers (HBOHCs) and modified the oxygen deficiency centers (ODC). As the absorption dose grows a different behavior of luminescence in the blue (maximum at 456 nm) and the red (maximum at 645 nm) bands is demonstrated. Luminescence radiation intensity associated with the ODCs increased during the implantation due to the growth of modificated ODC’s contribution. At the same time luminescence radiation intensity associated with NBOHCs had a non-monotonic dependence on the absorption dose. On the basis of our theoretical model and the experimental data, we calculated the average radiation-enhanced diffusion coefficient of hydrogen, the product of average value of the cross-section of the radiation defect creation and the initial portion of defects and the reaction rate constant for non-bridging oxygen passivation by the hydrogen. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
FLUKA Monte Carlo assessment of the terrestrial muon flux at low energies and comparison against experimental measurements ENDTITLE FLUKA Monte Carlo assessment of the terrestrial muon flux at low energies and comparison against experimental measurements ENDTITLES In recent years, there has been an increasing interest in the assessment and modelling of Galactic Cosmic Rays (GCR) particularly regarding the evaluation of the radiation effects on airline crew and passengers, interplanetary missions and on-board microelectronics. In the latter field, today the problem is not just limited to Single Event Effects (SEE) as used in avionics, but is more and more observed at ground level. Galactic cosmic muons, coming from the interaction of primary cosmic rays in the Earth's atmosphere, represent the most numerous species at ground level. In this work, we used the Monte Carlo code FLUKA to assess the atmospheric and terrestrial neutron and muon differential fluxes at various altitudes and specific examples such as the geographic coordinates corresponding to New York City and Vancouver. In this context, particle energy spectra were compared with references available in literature, calculation results obtained by both the QARM and EXPACS codes, as well as recently performed measurements. In addition, the zenith angular distribution, at ground level, was assessed for both neutrons and muons and compared with available references. Differential particle fluxes assessed for Vancouver were used as a primary source to simulate a muon detector currently taking data at TRIUMF to evaluate the passing and stopping terrestrial muon rate under different conditions. Finally, simulations were compared with the experimental measurements made at TRIUMF. Results show an excellent agreement between the FLUKA simulations and both references and the experimental measurements made at TRIUMF. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Application of neural networks to digital pulse shape analysis for an array of silicon strip detectors ENDTITLE Application of neural networks to digital pulse shape analysis for an array of silicon strip detectors ENDTITLES The new generation of nuclear physics detectors that used to study nuclear reactions is considering the use of digital pulse shape analysis techniques (DPSA) to obtain the (A,Z) values of the reaction products impinging in solid state detectors. This technique can be an important tool for selecting the relevant reaction channels at the HYDE (HYbrid DEtector ball array) silicon array foreseen for the Low Energy Branch of the FAIR facility (Darmstadt, Germany). In this work we study the feasibility of using artificial neural networks (ANNs) for particle identification with silicon detectors. Multilayer Perceptron networks were trained and tested with recent experimental data, showing excellent identification capabilities with signals of several isotopes ranging from 12C up to 84Kr, yielding higher discrimination rates than any other previously reported. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Nonhamiltonian approach to conformal quantum field theory ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
The 3 He long-counter TETRA at the ALTO ISOL facility ENDTITLE The 3 He long-counter TETRA at the ALTO ISOL facility ENDTITLES A new β-decay station (BEDO) has been installed behind the PARRNe mass separator operated on-line at the electron-driven ALTO ISOL facility. The station is equipped with a movable tape collector allowing the creation of the radioactive sources of interest at the very center of a modular detection system. The mechanical structure was designed to host various assemblies of detectors in compact geometry. We report here the first on-line use of this system equipped with the 4π 3He neutron counter TETRA built at JINR Dubna associated with HPGe and plastic 4π β detectors. The single neutron detection efficiency achieved is 53(2)% measured using the 252Cf source. For β-delayed neutron measurements the neutron detection efficiency was derived from the comparison of gated γ-spectra. The on-line commissioning of the TETRA setup was performed with laser-ionized gallium beams. β and neutron events were recorded as a function of time. From these data we report P1n(82Ga)=22(2)% and T1/2(82Ga)=0.604(11) s in good agreement with values available in the literature. The new detection system will be used in other experiments aimed at investigations of β-decay properties of neutron-rich isotopes produced at ALTO. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Development of a novel micro pattern gaseous detector for cosmic ray muon tomography ENDTITLE Development of a novel micro pattern gaseous detector for cosmic ray muon tomography ENDTITLES We propose a novel detector (Thick Groove Detector, TGD) designed for cosmic ray tomography with a spatial resolution of ~500 μm, trying to keep the construction procedure as simple as possible and to reduce the operating costs. The TGD belongs to the category of MPGDs with an amplification region less than 1 mm wide formed by alternate anode/cathode microstrips layers at different heights. A first 10×10 cm2 prototype has been built, divided in four sections with different test geometries. We present the construction procedure and the first results in terms of gain and stability. Preliminary studies with cosmic rays are also reported. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Graphene-based field effect transistors for radiation-induced field sensing ENDTITLE Graphene-based field effect transistors for radiation-induced field sensing ENDTITLES We propose the implementation of graphene-based field effect transistor (FET) as radiation sensor. In the proposed detector, graphene obtained via chemical vapor deposition is integrated into a Si-based field effect device as the gate readout electrode, able to sense any change in the field distribution induced by ionization in the underneath absorber, because of the strong variation in the graphene conductivity close to the charge neutrality point. Different 2-dimensional layered materials can be envisaged in this kind of device. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Development of new scintillators for medical applications ENDTITLE Development of new scintillators for medical applications ENDTITLES For a long time the discovery of new scintillators has been more serendipitous than driven by a deep understanding of the mechanisms at the origin of the scintillation process. This situation has dramatically changed since the 1990's with an increased demand for scintillators of better performance for large particle physics experiments as well as for medical imaging. It is now possible to design a scintillator for a specific purpose. The bandgap can be adjusted, the traps energy levels and their concentration can be finely tuned and their influence can be damped or on the contrary enhanced by specific doping for an optimization of the performance of the scintillator. Several examples are given in this paper of such crystal engineering attempts to improve the performance of crystal scintillators used in medical imaging devices. An attention is also given to spectacular progress in crystal production technologies, which open new perspectives for large scale and cost effective crystal production with consistent quality. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Lattice sites, charge states and spin–lattice relaxation of Fe ions in 57Mn+ implanted GaN and AlN ENDTITLE Lattice sites, charge states and spin–lattice relaxation of Fe ions in 57Mn+ implanted GaN and AlN ENDTITLES The lattice sites, valence states, resulting magnetic behaviour and spin–lattice relaxation of Fe ions in GaN and AlN were investigated by emission Mössbauer spectroscopy following the implantation of radioactive 57Mn+ ions at ISOLDE/CERN. Angle dependent measurements performed at room temperature on the 14.4 keV γ-rays from the 57Fe Mössbauer state (populated from the 57Mn β− decay) reveal that the majority of the Fe ions are in the 2+ valence state nearly substituting the Ga and Al cations, and/or associated with vacancy type defects. Emission Mössbauer spectroscopy experiments conducted over a temperature range of 100–800 K show the presence of magnetically split sextets in the “wings” of the spectra for both materials. The temperature dependence of the sextets relates these spectral features to paramagnetic Fe3+ with rather slow spin–lattice relaxation rates which follow a T2 temperature dependence characteristic of a two-phonon Raman process. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Optical, luminescence and scintillation characteristics of non-stoichiometric LuAG:Ce ceramics ENDTITLE Optical, luminescence and scintillation characteristics of non-stoichiometric LuAG:Ce ceramics ENDTITLES Non-stoichiometric Lu3+xAl5O12:Ce (Lu3+xAG:Ce, x=1, 2, 3 and 4 %) ceramics were fabricated by solid state reaction method and further optimized by an air-annealing process. Absorption, luminescence spectra and scintillation characteristics such as light yield, scintillation decay times, energy resolution, proportionality and afterglow were measured and compared with those of the latest LuAG:Ce single crystal and stoichiometric LuAG:Ce,Mg ceramic samples. Thanks to the elimination of oxygen vacancies produced in the vacuum sintering process, air-annealing treatment led to a significant decrease of afterglow and a remarkable enhancement of radioluminescence intensity and light yield. The highest light yield was found in annealed 1% Lu3+ rich Lu3+1%AG:Ce ceramic, reaching 14,760 ph/MeV (1 μs shaping time) and 22,400 ph/MeV (10 μs shaping time). Scintillation decays of Lu3+xAG:Ce ceramics consist of both fast (decay time 65–73 ns) and slow (decay time 740–1116 ns) decay components where the relative intensity of the latter is higher (~58%). A decreasing trend in scintillation efficiency was observed with increasing excess of Lu (with higher x values) in the samples. This can be explained by the existence of various electron traps due to LuAl antisite defect and structure disorder at the gain boundaries and interfaces. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Energy resolution studies of Ce- and Pr-doped aluminum and multicomponent garnets: The escape and photo-peaks ENDTITLE Energy resolution studies of Ce- and Pr-doped aluminum and multicomponent garnets: The escape and photo-peaks ENDTITLES The photopeak and escape peak processes were studied in heavy Ce3+-doped LuAG and GGAG, Pr3+-doped LuAG and undoped BGO scintillating crystals. Energy resolution measurements were performed with 511 keV photons of 22Na radioisotope. In the pulse-height spectra the escape peaks were resolved clearly on thin samples (up to 3 mm). If sample thickness increases the escape peak cannot be resolved anymore (for thicknesses approx. above 5 mm, especially). Consequently, energy resolution increases by about 40% compared with that measured at 1 mm thick samples. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Implementation of FLUKA for γ-ray applications in the marine environment ENDTITLE Implementation of FLUKA for γ-ray applications in the marine environment ENDTITLES The FLUKA code was implemented to simulate pulse-height spectra of a NaI(Tl) detector (excluding its resolution), considering radioactive sources of naturally occurring and artificial radionuclides present in the marine environment. For this purpose, a user-defined routine was developed for the proper simulation of the emitted γ-rays. The results were compared with simulations performed using the MCNP-CP code. The comparison of the recorded counts in the full-energy peaks, for the high intensity (emission probability >15%) emitted γ-rays for each radionuclide, yielded a satisfactory agreement (calculated ratios from 0.93 ± 0.05 to 1.07 ± 0.02) in all the studied cases. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Efficiency of superconducting transmission lines: An analysis with respect to the load factor and capacity rating ENDTITLE Efficiency of superconducting transmission lines: An analysis with respect to the load factor and capacity rating ENDTITLES Superconducting transmission lines (SCTL) are an innovative option for the future electricity grid and in particular for high-capacity HVDC power transmission. The promise of superconducting electric lines lies principally in their small size, with potential advantages in terms of efficiency, environmental impact and public acceptance. Furthermore, contrary to standard conductors, SCTL do not have any resistive losses, therefore the only remaining power loss is due to the cooling system that is needed to keep the superconductor at its cryogenic operating temperature. In order to obtain a realistic value for the SCTL efficiency, both the actual load factor and the capacity rating have to be taken into account. This paper analyzes the transmission efficiency characteristics for two long-distance SCTL designs developed at the IASS and at EPRI as a function of the load factor for capacities up to 10 GW, and in comparison with established transmission technologies. The focus of this study is the planned expansion of the HVDC transmission system in Germany, which is aimed at achieving the current CO2 reduction goals by integrating an increased share of intermittent renewable energy (RE) into the grid. The results can be readily extended to other scenarios and can provide complementary information for decision processes directed at planning a sustainable future grid. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Phenomenological implications of D3/D7 (reversed) μ-split-like supersymmetry scenario ENDTITLE Phenomenological implications of D3/D7 (reversed) μ-split-like supersymmetry scenario ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Photo-ionized lithium source for plasma accelerator applications ENDTITLE Photo-ionized lithium source for plasma accelerator applications ENDTITLES A photo-ionized lithium source is developed for plasma acceleration applications. A homogeneous column of lithium neutral vapor with a density of 2/spl times/10/sup 15-3/ is confined by helium gas in a heat-pipe oven. A UV laser pulse ionizes the vapor. In this device, the length of the neutral vapor and plasma column is 25 cm. The plasma density was measured by laser interferometry in the visible on the lithium neutrals and by CO/sub 2/ laser interferometry on the plasma electrons. The maximum measured plasma density was 2.9/spl times/10/sup 14/ cm/sup -3/, limited by the available UV fluence (/spl ap/83 mJ/cm/sup 2/), corresponding to a 15% ionization fraction. After ionization, the plasma density decreases by a factor of two in about 12 /spl mu/s. These results show that such a plasma source is scaleable to lengths of the order of 1 m and should satisfy all the requirements for demonstrating the acceleration of electrons by 1 GeV in a 1-GeV/m amplitude plasma wake. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Experimental flow boiling heat transfer in a small polyimide channel ENDTITLE Experimental flow boiling heat transfer in a small polyimide channel ENDTITLES New experimental flow boiling heat transfer results averaged along a very low thermal conductivity polyimide channel are presented. The experimental setup consists of a horizontal, 285 mm-long, 2.689 mm inner diameter polyimide tube, heated by a counter-current, external water flow. R245fa is the working fluid, at mass fluxes ranging from 100 to 500 kg m−2 s−1, heat fluxes from 15 to 55 kW m−2, and three saturation temperatures: 35, 41 and 47 °C. Heat transfer coefficient results are presented averaged over the whole polyimide channel for mean vapor qualities ranging from 0.05 to 0.80. High-speed flow visualization was possible downstream of the polyimide tube. Parametric analysis of the results revealed a strong dependence of the heat transfer coefficients on mass flux and vapor quality, and mild influence of the heat flux and the saturation temperature. The experimental database is compared with results obtained for metallic tubes of comparable size in similar experimental facilities. Last, experimental results are contrasted with several heat transfer methods, of which a convective model for annular flow well predicts the heat transfer coefficient values and convective boiling trends. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Right-handed Neutrino Production at Finite Temperatures ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Wave field with the spectrum of masses ENDTITLES [J.Phys.(USSR) 11(1947)72]: Linear equations with higher derivatives of an unlimited order are studied. Limitations for the operators of such equations are established. The case of a scalar field is especially examined. Russian abstract [Zh.Eksp.Teor.Fiz. 17(1947)116]: В работе рассматриваются линейные уравнения с высшими производными неограниченно высокого порядка. Устанавливаются ограничения для операторов таких уравнений. Особенно подробно рассмотрен случай скалярного поля. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Wave field with the spectrum of masses ENDTITLES [J.Phys.(USSR) 11(1947)72]: Linear equations with higher derivatives of an unlimited order are studied. Limitations for the operators of such equations are established. The case of a scalar field is especially examined. Russian abstract [Zh.Eksp.Teor.Fiz. 17(1947)116]: В работе рассматриваются линейные уравнения с высшими производными неограниченно высокого порядка. Устанавливаются ограничения для операторов таких уравнений. Особенно подробно рассмотрен случай скалярного поля. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Wave field with the spectrum of masses ENDTITLES [J.Phys.(USSR) 11(1947)72]: Linear equations with higher derivatives of an unlimited order are studied. Limitations for the operators of such equations are established. The case of a scalar field is especially examined. Russian abstract [Zh.Eksp.Teor.Fiz. 17(1947)116]: В работе рассматриваются линейные уравнения с высшими производными неограниченно высокого порядка. Устанавливаются ограничения для операторов таких уравнений. Особенно подробно рассмотрен случай скалярного поля. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Response of BGO sectors to protons up to 170 MeV ENDTITLE Response of BGO sectors to protons up to 170 MeV ENDTITLES The response to monoenergetic protons of 24 cm long pyramidal BGO sectors, designed for a 4π spectrometer, was measured up to 173 MeV by scattering 200 MeV protons off a polyethylene target. The experimental results are compared with lower energy results and Monte Carlo calculations performed with a modified version of the GEANT code. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Results from the kaonic hydrogen X-ray measurement at DAFNE and outlook to future experiments ENDTITLE Results from the kaonic hydrogen X-ray measurement at DAFNE and outlook to future experiments ENDTITLES The K⎯⎯⎯⎯NK¯N system at rest plays a key role for the understanding of strong interaction of hadrons with strangeness involved. The experiment SIDDHARTA used X-ray spectroscopy of kaonic atoms to measure the strong interaction induced shift and width of the ground state. It was the first experiment on kaonic He3 and deuterium ever, kaonic hydrogen was measured with improved precision resulting in ϵ1s=−283±36(stat)±6(syst)ϵ1s=−283±36(stat)±6(syst) eV and Γ1s=541±89(stat)±22(syst)Γ1s=541±89(stat)±22(syst) eV. Additionally a scheme for an improved future experiment on kaonic deuterium is introduced in this contribution. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Estimation of stepping motor current from long distances through cable-length-adaptive piecewise affine virtual sensor ENDTITLE Estimation of stepping motor current from long distances through cable-length-adaptive piecewise affine virtual sensor ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Atomic-Scale Magnetic Properties of Truly 3d-Diluted ZnO ENDTITLE Atomic-Scale Magnetic Properties of Truly 3d-Diluted ZnO ENDTITLES n search for dilute magnetic semiconductors, the magnetic properties at the atomic-scale of Fe atoms incorporated in ZnO, in a concentration range of more than five orders of magnitude from 1 × 10 −5 to 2.2 at% have been probed using emission 57 Fe Mössbauer spectroscopy on implanted 57 Mn and 57 Co produced at ISOLDE/CERN. In the ultra-dilute regime (10 −5 at%), the system shows isolated paramagnetic Fe 3+ ions with a spin–lattice type of relaxation. At higher concentrations (between 0.02 and 0.2 at%) a transition to spin–spin type of relaxation between neighboring Fe 3+ is observed, without any signature of magnetic ordering up to 2.2 at%. Despite the many reports of dilute magnetism in 3 d -doped ZnO, this atomic level study shows no evidence of any long-range magnetic ordering between isolated Fe atoms incorporated in the ZnO lattice. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Metascheduling Strategies in Distributed Computing with Non-dedicated Resources ENDTITLE Metascheduling Strategies in Distributed Computing with Non-dedicated Resources ENDTITLES In this chapter, we address problems of efficient computing in distributed systems with non-dedicated resources including utility Grid. There are global job flows from external users along with resource owner’s local tasks upon resource non-dedication condition. Competition for resource reservation between independent users, local and global job flows substantially complicates scheduling and the requirement to provide the necessary quality of service. A metascheduling concept, justified in this work, assumes a complex combination of job flow dispatching and application-level scheduling methods for parallel jobs, as well as resource sharing and consumption policies established in virtual organizations and based on economic principles. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Specificity of the Metalloregulator CueR for Monovalent Metal Ions: Possible Functional Role of a Coordinated Thiol? ENDTITLE Specificity of the Metalloregulator CueR for Monovalent Metal Ions: Possible Functional Role of a Coordinated Thiol? ENDTITLES Metal-ion-responsive transcriptional regulators within the MerR family effectively discriminate between mono- and divalent metal ions.Herein we address the origin of the specificity of the CueR protein for monovalent metal ions.Several spectroscopic techniques were employed to study Ag I ,Zn II ,and Hg II binding to model systems encompassing the metal-ion-binding loop of CueR from E. coli and V. cholerae. In the presence of Ag I ,a conserved cysteine residue displays apK a value for deprotonation of the thiol that is close to the physiological pH value.This property is only observed with the monovalent metal ion. Quantum chemically optimized struc- tures of the CueR metal site with Cys 112 protonated demon- strate that the conserved Ser77 backbone carbonyl oxygen atom from the other monomer of the homodimer is “pulled” towards the metal site.A common allosteric mechanism of the metalloregulatory members of the MerR family is proposed. For CueR, the mechanism relies on the protonation of Cys 112. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Preparation of Yb2O3 submicron- and nano-materials via electrospinning ENDTITLE Preparation of Yb2O3 submicron- and nano-materials via electrospinning ENDTITLES Yb2O3 nano- and submicron-materials were prepared via electrospinning an homogeneous solution obtained by mixing ytterbium acetylacetonate with cellulose acetate in 1:1 acetyl acetone (2,4-pentanodione) and glacial acetic acid, followed by heat treatments for 2 h in air atmosphere at temperatures from 550 °C to 850 °C. The electrospinning procedure was carried out at 15 kV, with a tip to collector distance of 10 cm. Thermogravimetric analysis of the electrospun materials indicates their complete decomposition and oxidation below 425 °C, with a total weight loss of ~92%. The Williamson–Hall and the Brunauer−Emmett−Teller methods, and scanning and transmission electron microscopy observations were used to characterize the grain size and morphology of the samples. An initial very small grain size (<100 nm) and high porosity were observed in the samples treated at 550 °C, which is related to the important total weight loss. Further heat treatments at higher temperatures lead to the grain growth and agglomeration, increasing the average size to submicron dimensions. Due to their easy grain size tuning, these materials are particularly suitable for applications in fiber amplifiers, fiber optic technologies and lasers. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Sintering kinetics of nanometric calcium oxide in vacuum atmosphere ENDTITLE Sintering kinetics of nanometric calcium oxide in vacuum atmosphere ENDTITLES A recent application for nanometric CaO powder is its use as a spallation target material for the production of isotope beams at CERN. The stability of the nanostructure at high operation temperatures is a crucial feature to provide stable and improved isotope release rates. Prior to operation, sintering studies under thermal conditions similar to those of the target operation are required to establish the microstructural evolution due to coarsening and densification processes. This knowledge enables the identification of the limiting temperatures for the target operation, ensuring a stable nanostructure for higher and constant isotope release rates. In this study, nanometric CaO powder with 58 m2 g−1 of specific surface area was obtained from vacuum decomposition of calcium carbonate at 800 °C. The microstructure evolution of porous powder compacts was investigated under vacuum atmosphere, from 1000 to 1250 °C, for holding times from 3 to 600 min. For temperatures higher than 1000 °C, a significant surface area reduction was observed, accompanied by porosity decrease. The morphological analysis of the pore evolution revealed a differential sintering of the porous compacts, mainly occurring inside the aggregates. The kinetic analysis of the surface area reduction pointed to aggregate shrinkage controlled by volume diffusion with surface diffusion as an underlying mechanism for lower temperatures. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Modular disk recorder for physics experiments ENDTITLE Modular disk recorder for physics experiments ENDTITLES The conventional data recorder is based on the tape for physics experiments. A modular disk recorder is developed that consists of data-splitting modules (DSM), data-recording modules (DRM) and commodity disk drives. This innovative disk recorder has a better performance and higher reliability than the tape recorder. It can be configured flexibly as different redundant array of inexpensive disks (RAID) structures to record acquired data according to different applications. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
ICARUS: Present Status and Perspective for Sterile Neutrinos Search at Fermilab ENDTITLES ICARUS T600 liquid argon TPC completed in 2013 a very successful three year run at LNGS underground laboratory exposed to CNGS neutrino and cosmic rays achieving relevant physics and technical results. The T600 will be exposed to FNAL Booster neutrinos in the framework of the joint ICARUS SBND and MicroBooNE effort to definitively clarify the presence of sterile neutrinos. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Hurwitz numbers and intersections on moduli spaces of curves ENDTITLE Hurwitz numbers and intersections on moduli spaces of curves ENDTITLE Hurwitz numbers and intersections on moduli spaces of curves ENDTITLES This article is an extended version of preprint math.AG/9902104. We find an explicit formula for the number of topologically different ramified coverings of a sphere by a genus g surface with only one complicated branching point in terms of Hodge integrals over the moduli space of genus g curves with marked points. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
The three-body decays B(s) → ρf0(X) → ρπ−π+ in pQCD factorization approach ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Can bigravity gravitational baryogenesis explain the CMB 143 GHz excess line? ENDTITLE Can bigravity gravitational baryogenesis explain the CMB 143 GHz excess line? ENDTITLES It has been recently claimed [arXiv: 1510.00126], that the 143 GHz excess line in the Cosmic MicrowaveBackground (CMB) spectrumcould be explained by a collision of our Universe with an alternate Universe in which the baryon to entropy ratio is 65 times larger than the corresponding value measured for ourUniverse. This 143 GHz excess line is due to baryons, as was claimed, since the excess line corresponds to the recombination epoch, while the rest of the CMB signal is free of such excess lines. Thus the excess line is ascribed to an effect of collision of our Universe with a parallel universe. In this paper, we propose an alternative mechanism to explain the 143 GHz excess CMB line by using a simple bimetric gravity model which makes use of two metrics, the foreground metric gμν and the background metric fμν. The foreground Universe describes our Universe, and the background Universe is assumed to be underlying. The metrics are chosen to satisfy fμν = D2gμν, and the bimetric gravity model is constrained in such a way that the resulting Einstein equations for the background and foreground Universe are identical. In effect, the foreground and background Universe are indistinguishable at the cosmological solutions level. However, for the choices of the metrics we made, the scalar curvatures of the foreground and background Universes, namely Rg and Rf , are related by Rf = 1/D2, which can effectively result in different baryon to entropy ratios for the two Universes, via the gravitational baryogenesis mechanism. According to the gravitational baryogenesis mechanism, the baryon to entropy ratio is ηB = R˙ /M2 ∗T, which means that the baryon to entropy ratio for the foreground and the background Universes we chose, namely ηB(g) and ηB(f), satisfy the relation ηB(f) = 1 D2 ηB(g), and if D is chosen as D = 1/ √ 65, this could explain the 143 GHz excess line. The resulting phenomenological picture is quite appealing, since in the context of our bimetric gravity model, the foreground and background Universes coexist and are indistinguishable at the cosmological solutions level, but they are distinguishable only via the gravitational baryogenesis mechanism, which results in a baryon to entropy ratio for the background Universe, which is 65 time larger from the one corresponding to our Universe. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Quantification of CERN's economic spin-off ENDTITLE Quantification of CERN's economic spin-off ENDTITLES This is a condensed version of the CERN report Economic Ufility Resulting from CERN Contracts by the saine authors, which attempts to quantify the economic benefit to high technology manufacturing industries involved in CERN contracts, in relation to their sales to CERN. It covers the period 1973--87 and complements an earlier study ruade in 1973--75. Interviews were carriœ out in 166 European firms, of which the majority supplied estimates of increased sales and cost savings due to CERN contracts. This "Economic Utility" totals 3107 million Swiss francs (up to the year 1987) compared to sales to CERN in 1973--82 amounting to 748 million Swiss francs in 1982 prices. It is estimated that, by 1987, CERN's high technology purchases made in 1973--82 will have generated Economic Utility amounting to about 60~ of the overall cost of the Organization during the same period. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Effect of high energy electrons on H− production and destruction in a high current DC negative ion source for cyclotron ENDTITLE Effect of high energy electrons on H− production and destruction in a high current DC negative ion source for cyclotron ENDTITLES Recently, a filament driven multi-cusp negative ion source has been developed for proton cyclotrons in medical applications. In this study, numerical modeling of the filament arc-discharge source plasma has been done with kinetic modeling of electrons in the ion source plasmas by the multi-cusp arc-discharge code and zero dimensional rate equations for hydrogen molecules and negative ions. In this paper, main focus is placed on the effects of the arc-discharge power on the electron energy distribution function and the resultant H− production. The modelling results reasonably explains the dependence of the H− extraction current on the arc-discharge power in the experiments. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Results of the Testing of ITER CC HTS Current Lead Prototypes ENDTITLE Results of the Testing of ITER CC HTS Current Lead Prototypes ENDTITLES Abstract: According to the procurement agreement with the International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor project, the Institute of Plasma Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences (ASIPP) in China is responsible for the construction and performance testing of 31 sets of feeder systems, which contain also 60 high-temperature superconducting (HTS) current leads. In 2014/2015, three pairs of prototype current leads of three different types are being built and tested. A first pair of correction coil (CC) type, 10-kA current lead prototypes was built and cold tested in ASIPP in early 2015. The test items cover the joint resistance, overheating time test, mass flow consumption in steady-state operation for various currents, and the pulsed current scenario test. This paper presents the test results for the prototype CC 10-kA HTS current leads. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Quench Protection of a 16-T Block-Coil Dipole Magnet for a 100-TeV Hadron Collider Using CLIQ ENDTITLE Quench Protection of a 16-T Block-Coil Dipole Magnet for a 100-TeV Hadron Collider Using CLIQ ENDTITLES Abstract: Protection against the effects of a quench is a crucial challenge for 16-T-class superconducting dipole magnets for a future 100-TeV Hadron collider. To avoid damage due to overheating of the coil's hot spot, heat generated during the quench has to be homogeneously distributed in the winding pack by quickly and uniformly transferring to the normal-state voluminous coil sections. Conventional protection systems rely on quench heaters placed on the outer surfaces of the coils. However, this technique has to confront significant challenges in order to achieve the fast transitions required by high magnetic field magnets. The recently developed coupling-loss-induced quench (CLIQ) utilizes interfilament coupling loss as an effective intrawire heat deposition mechanism, which, in principle, is faster than thermal diffusion. Furthermore, the CLIQ technology is based on simple and robust electrical components in contact with the coil only in a limited number of easily accessible and well-insulated points. Hence, expected occurrence of failure and electrical breakdown is significantly reduced. As a case study, the design of a CLIQ-based protection system for a 14-m-long 16-T Nb 3Sn block-coil dipole magnet is demonstrated here. Various magnet design features can be adjusted to improve CLIQ performance and optimize its integration in the magnet system. CLIQ provides future magnet designers with a solution for a very effective, yet electrically robust, quench protection system, resulting in better magnet performance and lower cost than would be possible with a traditional approach to magnet protection. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Estudio fenomenológico de extensiones del sector escalar del modelo estándar ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Toward a new paradigm in quench detection for superconducting magnets? ‘Quench detection for high temperature superconductor magnets: a novel technique based on Rayleigh-backscattering interrogated optical fibers (RIOF)’ ENDTITLE Toward a new paradigm in quench detection for superconducting magnets? ‘Quench detection for high temperature superconductor magnets: a novel technique based on Rayleigh-backscattering interrogated optical fibers (RIOF)’ ENDTITLES This is a viewpoint on the letter by F Scurti et al (2016 Supercond. Sci. Technol. 29 03LT01) ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Quantitative imaging of excised osteoarthritic cartilage using spectral CT ENDTITLE Quantitative imaging of excised osteoarthritic cartilage using spectral CT ENDTITLES Objectives: To quantify iodine uptake in articular cartilage as a marker of glycosaminoglycan (GAG) content using multi-energy spectral CT. Methods: We incubated a 25-mm strip of excised osteoarthritic human tibial plateau in 50 % ionic iodine contrast and imaged it using a small-animal spectral scanner with a cadmium telluride photon-processing detector to quantify the iodine through the thickness of the articular cartilage. We imaged both spectroscopic phantoms and osteoarthritic tibial plateau samples. The iodine distribution as an inverse marker of GAG content was presented in the form of 2D and 3D images after applying a basis material decomposition technique to separate iodine in cartilage from bone. We compared this result with a histological section stained for GAG. Results: The iodine in cartilage could be distinguished from subchondral bone and quantified using multi-energy CT. The articular cartilage showed variation in iodine concentration throughout its thickness which appeared to be inversely related to GAG distribution observed in histological sections. Conclusions: Multi-energy CT can quantify ionic iodine contrast (as a marker of GAG content) within articular cartilage and distinguish it from bone by exploiting the energy-specific attenuation profiles of the associated materials. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Low and Medium Energy Weak Quasielastic and Pion Production Processes from Nuclei ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Electroweak processes in nucleons and nuclei at intermediate energies ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
On-ground testing of the role of adhesion in the LISA-Pathfinder test mass injection phase ENDTITLE On-ground testing of the role of adhesion in the LISA-Pathfinder test mass injection phase ENDTITLES Many space missions share the need to fly a free-falling body inside the spacecraft, as a reference for navigation and/or as a probe for the local gravitational field. When a mechanism is required to cage such an object during the launch phase, the need arises to release it to free-fall once the operational phase must be initiated in orbit. The criticality of this phase increases when the mechanical interfaces between the body and the mechanism are affected by adhesion and the actuation authority of the control system on the free-falling body is limited. Both conditions are realized in the LISA Pathfinder mission, which aims at injecting a gold-coated 2 kg cubic test mass into a nearly perfect geodesic trajectory to demonstrate the readiness of the developed technology for in-space gravity wave detection. The criticality of adhesion is widely recognized in space technology, because it can affect and jeopardize the functionality of mechanisms, when arising between moving parts. In the LISA Pathfinder case, metallic adhesion potentially plays a relevant role, mainly for two reasons. First, thanks to its properties (ductility, high surface energy) the gold coating on the proof mass easily produces cold weldings, especially in vacuum conditions. Second, the detachment of the proof mass from the releasing device occurs abruptly and a relevant influence of the separation velocity is expected on the strength of the welding. This can produce an excessive velocity of the proof mass at the retraction of the releasing device for the following capture and centring phase on behalf of the control system. A testing activity is performed to characterize the dynamic behaviour of the adhesive bonds between the proof mass and the releasing device, which can be used to predict their contribution on the residual velocity of the proof mass after in-flight release. The study of such a dynamic phenomenon sets some challenging requirements on the measurement technique, both on the instrumental and on the signal analysis sides. However, the recent improvements on the testing activities make it possible to refine the contribution of adhesion on the proof mass velocity budget at the release. In this paper we describe the recent experimental results, the developments in the measurement technique, the improvements in the repeatability of the results and the related projection to in-flight release dynamics, in comparison with the previous results. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Eigenstrain reconstruction of residual strains in an additively manufactured and shot peened nickel superalloy compressor blade ENDTITLE Eigenstrain reconstruction of residual strains in an additively manufactured and shot peened nickel superalloy compressor blade ENDTITLES Numerical modelling of the residual stresses and strains within mechanical components is of great importance for improving the quality and reliability of design for structural integrity. A particularly versatile and powerful approach is offered by direct and inverse eigenstrain modelling. The nature of the eigenstrain modelling approach is that it not only generates an efficient parametric representation of the residual stress field, but also ensures consistency by enforcing stress equilibrium and strain compatibility. In the present study we propose a particular way of prescribing the eigenstrain field due to surface treatment such as shot peening. Eigenstrain variation is described by a continuous function of the distance from the boundary of the object in a two-dimensional model of its cross-section. The procedure is compatible with the use of commercial numerical simulation software, and allows correct assignment of all eigenstrain components. We apply the technique to the evaluation of residual strain within an additively manufactured nickel superalloy compressor blade that was subsequently subjected to shot peening treatment. Two experimental techniques are used to validate the model, namely, Focused Ion Beam ring core milling (FIB-DIC) and synchrotron X-ray Powder Diffraction (SXRPD). Consistency between model prediction and experimental measurements provides verification of the suitability of eigenstrain modelling as consistent basis for the incorporation of residual stress effects on the deformation behaviour of manufactured components. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
A runtime estimation framework for ALICE ENDTITLE A runtime estimation framework for ALICE ENDTITLES The European Organization for Nuclear Research (CERN) is the largest research organization for particle physics. ALICE, short for ALarge Ion Collider Experiment, serves as one of the main detectors at CERN and produces approximately 15 petabytes of data each year. The computing associated with an ALICE experiment consists of both online and offline processing. An online cluster retrieves data while an offline cluster farm performs a broad range of data analysis. Online processing occurs as collision events are streamed from the detector to the online cluster. This process compresses and calibrates the data before storing it in a data storage system for subsequent offline processing, e.g., event reconstruction. Due to the large volume of stored data to process, offline processing seeks to minimize execution time and data-staging time of the applications via a two-tier offline cluster — the Event Processing Node (EPN) as the first tier and the World LHC Grid Computing (WLGC) as the second tier. This two-tier cluster requires a smart job scheduler to efficiently manage the running of the application. Thus, we propose a runtime estimation method for this offline processing in the ALICE environment. Our approach exploits application profiles to predict the runtime of a high-performance computing (HPC) application without the need for any additional metadata. To evaluate our proposed framework, we performed our experiment on the actual ALICE applications. In addition, we also test the efficacy of our runtime estimation method to predict the run times of the HPC applications on the Amazon EC2 cloud. The results show that our approach generally delivers accurate predictions, i.e., low error percentages. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Estimation of fatigue S-N curves of welded joints using advanced probabilistic approach ENDTITLE Estimation of fatigue S-N curves of welded joints using advanced probabilistic approach ENDTITLES This paper provides a new advanced probabilistic approach for reliable estimation of the fatigue characteristic S-N curves of welded joints both for constant amplitude (CA) and variable amplitude (VA) loading conditions. The presented approach, which is referred to as the ML-MCS approach, combines Maximum Likelihood method (ML) and Monte-Carlo Simulations (MCS) method to estimate true p-quantiles of CA and VA S-N curves by using complete experimental data-sets. The ML-MCS approach includes a linearization method for use of S-N curves in combination with linear damage accumulation rule as well as for direct comparison with current standards. Application of the ML-MCS approach on two study cases and comparison with current standards shows that the use of the ML-MCS approach may have a significant impact in re-definition of CA and VA S-N curves of current standards and in particular of the CAFL, of the S-N curve second slope and of the critical value of accumulated damage at failure. The last section of the paper provides accurate guidelines for future experimental tests needed for re-definition of current standards. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Selective laser photodetachment of intense atomic and molecular negative ion beams with the ILIAS RFQ ion beam cooler ENDTITLE Selective laser photodetachment of intense atomic and molecular negative ion beams with the ILIAS RFQ ion beam cooler ENDTITLES The Ion Laser InterAction Setup (ILIAS) project at the University of Vienna aims at the exploration of negative ion beam filtering by selective laser photodetachment for applications in accelerator mass spectrometry (AMS). A gas-filled radio frequency quadrupole (RFQ) is used to decelerate and cool negative atomic and molecular ion beams with intensities of up to several hundred nA, and overlap them collinearly with a continuous wave (cw) laser beam. Ion-laser interaction times ranging from 500 μs to several ms allow for highly efficient, selective photodetachment depletion of disturbing ion species within these beams. The elemental selectivity of this technique is based on the differences in electron affinities, and therefore does not depend on relative differences in atomic numbers. It may therefore provide sufficient isobar suppression for new trace isotopes, which are not accessible with existing AMS techniques. The ILIAS RFQ cooler was characterized at a purpose-built test bench with respect to ion beam transmission, ion cooling capabilities and ion residence times as a function of injected ion current to assess its suitability for future AMS use. A 63Cu− test beam of 600 nA was photodetached with more than 99.999% efficiency with a 532 nm laser at 10.8 W power. At the same time, ions of interest having electron affinities higher than the photon energy passed the cooler unaffected. Total ion losses were thus found to be below 50% of the sputter source output. Finally, first photodetachment experiments in connection with 26Al detection demonstrated selective isobar suppression of MgO− vs. AlO− by more than 4 orders of magnitude. Currently, the RFQ cooler is moved to a new injector beamline at the Vienna Environmental Research Accelerator (VERA) for first applications of this novel technique at a state-of-the-art AMS facility. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Composition and properties tailoring in Mg 2+ codoped non-stoichiometric LuAG:Ce,Mg scintillation ceramics ENDTITLE Composition and properties tailoring in Mg 2+ codoped non-stoichiometric LuAG:Ce,Mg scintillation ceramics ENDTITLES A comprehensive study of the optical, radioluminescence and scintillation properties of both the Lu3+ rich and Lu3+ deficient non-stoichiometric Lu3+xAG:Ce,Mg (Lu3+xAl5O12:Ce,Mg, x = −4, −1, +1 and +4 at.%) ceramics are performed, completed further by the microstructure and defects characterization. Small deviation from the stoichiometric composition as well as Mg2+ codoping plays a crucial role in ceramic transparency, radioluminescence intensity and the timing characteristics of scintillation response. The LuAl antisite defects could be suppressed efficiently by controlling Lu3+ content below stoichiometry of LuAG host. MgO (Mg2+ ions) as effective sintering aids, can improve both the optical quality and scintillation performance (light yield, scintillation decay times and the ratio of fast decay components). We generally discuss the composition dependence of defects and properties tailoring. We also performed the systematic comparative study with the stoichiometric LuAG:Ce,Mg ceramic and the commercial BGO and LuAG:Ce single crystals. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Constraining New Physics with Colliders and Neutrinos ENDTITLES In this work, we examine how neutrino and collider experiments can each and together put constraints on new physics more stringently than ever. Constraints arise in three ways. First, possible new theoretical frameworks are reviewed and analyzed for the compatibility with collider experiments. We study alternate theories such as the superconnection formalism and non-commutative geometry (NCG) and show how these can be put to test, if any collider excess were to show up. In this case, we use the previous diboson and diphoton statistical excess as examples to do the analysis. Second, we parametrize low energy new physics in the neutrino sector in terms of non-standard interactions (NSI), which are constrained by past and proposed future neutrino experiments. As an example, we show the capability of resolving such NSI with the OscSNS, a detector proposed for Oak Ridge National Lab and derive interesting new constraints on NSI at very low energy (. 50 MeV). Apart from this, in order to better understand the NSI matter effect in long baseline experiments such as the future DUNE experiment, we derive a new compact formula to describe the effect analytically, which provides a clear physical picture of our understanding of the NSI matter effect compared to numerical computations. Last, we discuss the possibility of combining neutrino and collider data to get a better understanding of where the new physics is hidden. In particular, we study a model that produces sizable NSI to show how they can be constrained by past collider data, which covers a distinct region of the model parameter space from the DUNE experiment. In combining the two, we show that neutrino experiments are complementary to collider searches in ruling out models such as the ones that utilize a light mediator particle. More general procedures in constructing such models relevant to neutrino experiments are also described. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Perverse coherent sheaves on blowup, III: Blow-up formula from wall-crossing ENDTITLE Perverse coherent sheaves on blow-up. III. Blow-up formula from wall-crossing ENDTITLE Perverse coherent sheaves on blowup, III: Blow-up formula from wall-crossing ENDTITLES In earlier papers arXiv:0802.3120, arXiv:0806.0463 of this series we constructed a sequence of intermediate moduli spaces $\bM^m(c)$ connecting a moduli space $M(c)$ of stable torsion free sheaves on a nonsingular complex projective surface and $\bM(c)$ on its one point blow-up. They are moduli spaces of perverse coherent sheaves on the blow-up. In this paper we study how Donaldson-type invariants (integrals of cohomology classes given by universal sheaves) change from $\bM^m(c)$ to $\bM^{m+1}(c)$, and then from $M(c)$ to $\bM(c)$. As an application we prove that Nekrasov-type partition functions satisfy certain equations which determine invariants recursively in second Chern classes. They are generalization of the blow-up equation for the original Nekrasov deformed partition function for the pure N=2 SUSY gauge theory, found and used to derive the Seiberg-Witten curves in arXiv:math/0306198. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Towards robust design of thin film transition edge sensors for use in the next-generation superconducting radio frequency cavities ENDTITLE Towards robust design of thin film transition edge sensors for use in the next-generation superconducting radio frequency cavities ENDTITLES In order to increase the accelerating gradient, the next-generation of Superconducting Radio Frequency (SRF) cavities will be operated with superfluid helium cooling. This upgrade requires the development of a state-of-the-art cryogenic temperature mapping system, which can be used to identify quench initiation in new cavities, and thereby assess their suitability for installation. This paper presents a new mapping system based on an array of Transition Edge Sensors (TESs): electrical devices that exploit the superconducting transition of a thin film to identify temperature changes. The TES array is manufactured using photolithography to deposit a thin film on a 100 mm diameter glass wafer. Two different designs of Au-Sn TES have been assessed; Design 1 was composed of a 10 nm Cr adhesive layer, followed by 20 nm of Au and 100 nm of Sn, and Design 2 was identical except that the Cr layer was not applied. Design 1 showed excellent film adherence, however no superconducting transition was observed. In contrast, Design 2 showed poor film bonding but a superconducting transition. These insights are being used to design a new cryogenic temperature mapping device that combines Design 1 for robust electrical contacts and Design 2 for second sound detection. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Reflection and transmission of discontinuity waves through a shock wave. General theory including also the case of characteristic shocks ENDTITLE Reflection and transmission of discontinuity waves through a shock wave. General theory including also the case of characteristic shocks ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Use of Extended Kalman Filter in position sensor fault detection for stepper motors ENDTITLE Use of Extended Kalman Filter in position sensor fault detection for stepper motors ENDTITLES Stepper motors are often used as actuators in harsh environments such as nuclear power plants or particle accelerators due to their high reliability and relatively precise open loop positioning. Their significant disadvantage, however, is their jerky motion profile, caused by the stepping action and introducing vibrations to the actuated system. These vibrations can reduce the lifetime of the mechanics when compared to the smooth motion profile that can be achieved using closed-loop position control. In order to have the reliability of open-loop control, but the smoother motion of closed-loop control, real-time position sensor fault detection can allow sensors to be used in normal operation and, if a fault is detected, switch to open-loop. In this paper, sensor fault detection for stepper motors using the Extended Kalman Filter is studied. A novel method to detect a sensor fault is proposed and compared to a standard one. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
BREIT code: Analytical solution of the balance rate equations for charge-state evolutions of heavy-ion beams in matter ENDTITLE BREIT code: Analytical solution of the balance rate equations for charge-state evolutions of heavy-ion beams in matter ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Effect of reducing Lu3+ content on the fabrication and scintillation properties of non-stoichiometric Lu3−xAl5O12:Ce ceramics ENDTITLE Effect of reducing Lu3+ content on the fabrication and scintillation properties of non-stoichiometric Lu3−xAl5O12:Ce ceramics ENDTITLES Lu3−xAl5O12:Ce optical ceramics (Lu3−xAG:Ce, x = 1, 2, 3 and 4 at.%, respectively) with Lu3+ compositions ranging from 1 to 4 at.% below stoichiometry content were fabricated by solid state reaction method and further optimized by an air-annealing process. The effect of Lu3+ deficiency on the optical, luminescence and scintillation properties of such a non-stoichiometric Lu3−xAl5O12:Ce ceramics was investigated. Significant influence in the material densification was found leading to strong changes in the transparency, radioluminescence (RL) and scintillation response of these ceramics. Within the range of 1–4 at.% Lu3+ deficiency, LuAl antisite defects were suppressed effectively and the Lu3−xAG:Ce ceramics displayed an extremely high RL intensity which reaches ∼4 times higher than that of the latest commercial LuAG:Ce single crystals while its transparency deteriorated. The microstructure, presence of foreign phases and charge traps acting in scintillation mechanism were also characterized by means of SEM, back scattered electron imaging and thermoluminescence techniques, respectively. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Growth and characterization of Ce-doped YAG and LuAG fibers ENDTITLE Growth and characterization of Ce-doped YAG and LuAG fibers ENDTITLES Undoped and Ce-doped Lu3Al5O12 (LuAG) and Y3Al5O12 (YAG) single crystal fibers were grown by the micro-pulling down technique (μ-PD) with a purpose to fit the design of new dual-readout calorimeter planned to operate in future experiences of high energy physics. Fibers up to 20 cm in length and 1 mm in diameter were grown along [111] direction. Based on the measurements of the attenuation length along the fibers, the growth conditions to improve the fibers quality were selected. Our results showed that the grown fibers have the capability to be used for future detectors. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Effect of Li+ ions co-doping on luminescence, scintillation properties and defects characteristics of LuAG:Ce ceramics ENDTITLE Effect of Li+ ions co-doping on luminescence, scintillation properties and defects characteristics of LuAG:Ce ceramics ENDTITLES Monovalent Li+ codoped Lu3Al5O12:Ce (LuAG:Ce) optical ceramics were fabricated by solid state reaction method and further optimized by an air-annealing process. Optical absorption, radioluminescence spectra and scintillation properties such as light yield, scintillation decay times and afterglow were measured and compared with those of the Li+ free LuAG:Ce ceramic and the commercial LuAG:Ce single crystal samples. Positive effect of Li+ codopant consists mainly in the significant increase of scintillation light yield, acceleration of scintillation decay as well as the decrease of afterglow intensity. With 0.3% Li codoping, the obtained LuAG:Ce,Li ceramic displays a light yield of ∼29200 ph/MeV at 10 μs shaping time, higher than that of the LuAG:Ce single crystal and optical ceramic scintillators ever reported. The partial conversion of the stable Ce3+ to Ce4+ centers and the shallow and deep traps effect suppression by the Li+ codoping are discussed. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Secondary neutrons inside a proton therapy facility: MCNPX simulations compared to measurements performed with a Bonner Sphere Spectrometer and neutron H*(10) monitors ENDTITLE Secondary neutrons inside a proton therapy facility: MCNPX simulations compared to measurements performed with a Bonner Sphere Spectrometer and neutron H*(10) monitors ENDTITLES Neutron spectrometry measurements with an extended-range Bonner Sphere Spectrometer (BSS), as well as neutron H*(10) measurements using an extended-range rem meter WENDI-2, a conventional rem meter LB 6411 and a tissue-equivalent proportional counter, were performed inside and around the Fixed-Beam Treatment Room at the proton therapy facility of Essen, in Germany. The WENDI-2 stood out as the easiest detector for making accurate neutron H*(10) measurements, since its direct measurements were equivalent to the H*(10) rates obtained with the BSS. The measurements were also compared to simulation results obtained with MCNPX 2.7.0 using two different selections of physics models for the hadron interactions above 150 MeV: the Bertini & Dresner models and the CEM03 model. For neutron H*(10) rates outside the treatment room, factors of 1.6–1.8 were obtained between the results of the two simulations, the Bertini & Dresner models yielding the largest values in all positions. The comparison of the simulation results with the WENDI-2 and BSS measurements for positions inside the treatment room showed that the Bertini & Dresner models reproduce the global neutron production in the water phantom relatively well, whereas the CEM03 model underestimates it by a factor of ∼1.3. At the most-forward angle, however, the Bertini model (unlike the CEM03 model) seemed to overestimate the production of neutrons with energies above 100 MeV. Outside the shielding, the simulated H*(10) overestimated the WENDI-2 measurements by factors of 2–3 with the Bertini & Dresner models, and 1.1–1.7 with the CEM03 model. Both simulations were thus conservative with respect to the neutron fluxes transmitted through the concrete walls. This conservative behaviour is probably caused by a combination of several uncertainties, including for instance uncertainties on the proton and neutron interaction cross-sections and uncertainties on the concrete composition and density. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Direct Observation of Nanosecond Water Exchange Dynamics at a Protein Metal Site ENDTITLE Direct Observation of Nanosecond Water Exchange Dynamics at a Protein Metal Site ENDTITLES Nanosecond ligand exchange dynamics at metal sites within proteins is essential in catalysis, metal ion transport, and regulatory metallobiochemistry. Herein we present direct observation of the exchange dynamics of water at a Cd2+ binding site within two de novo designed metalloprotein constructs using 111mCd perturbed angular correlation (PAC) of γ-rays and 113Cd NMR spectroscopy. The residence time of the Cd2+-bound water molecule is tens of nanoseconds at 20 °C in both proteins. This constitutes the first direct experimental observation of the residence time of Cd2+ coordinated water in any system, including the simple aqua ion. A Leu to Ala amino acid substitution ∼10 Å from the Cd2+ site affects both the equilibrium constant and the residence time of water, while, surprisingly, the metal site structure, as probed by PAC spectroscopy, remains essentially unaltered. This implies that remote mutations may affect metal site dynamics, even when structure is conserved. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Caracterización de los fotomultiplicadores del experimento Double Chooz bajo campo magnético y diseño y contrucción de sus blindajes magnéticos ENDTITLES Flavour oscilations of neutrinos are a quantum-mechanical effect widely demonstrated. It is explained through interferences of their mass eigenstates, therefore, belonging to the phisical area beyond the Standard Model. This work deals with the CIEMAT collaboration in the neutrino experiment Double Chooz. Such an experiment aims to measure the mixture angle $\theta_{13}$, one of the PMNS leptonic mixture matrix, with a unreached-before sensibility by decrease of systematic errors. For this, two identical scintillator detectors, equipped with PMT’s, will be sited at different distances from two reactors located in the nuclear powerplant CHOOZ B (France). The electronic neutrino flux from these reactors will be compared, explaining its deficit by flavour oscilations of these particles. The identity of both detectors will be diminished by the magnetic field effects on the PMT’s response. Therefore, this study serves as for quantifying such an effects as for fitting the magnetic shields design that minimize them. Shielding measurements and final design of magnetic shields as much as the effect these ones cause in the PMT’s response inmersed in a monitored magnetic field are presented. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
A neutrino-nucleon interaction generator for the FLUKA Monte Carlo code ENDTITLES Event generators that handle neutrino-nucleon interaction have been developed for the FLUKA code [1]. In earlier FLUKA versions only quasi-elastic (QEL) interactions were included, and the code relied on external event generators for the resonance (RES) and deep inelastic scattering (DIS). The new DIS+RES event generator is fully integrated in FLUKA and uses the same hadronization routines as those used for simulating hadron-nucleon interactions. Nuclear effects in neutrino-nucleus interactions are simulated within the same framework as in the FLUKA hadron-nucleus interaction model (PEANUT), thus profiting from its detailed physics modelling and longstanding benchmarking. The generators are available in the standard FLUKA distribution. They are presently under development and several improvements are planned to be implemented. The physics relevant to the neutrino-nucleon interactions and the results of comparisons with experimental data are discussed. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Hodge integrals and Gromov-Witten theory ENDTITLE Hodge integrals and Gromov-Witten theory ENDTITLE Hodge integrals and Gromov-Witten theory ENDTITLES Integrals of the Chern classes of the Hodge bundle in Gromov-Witten theory are studied. We find a universal system of differential equations which determines the generating function of these integrals from the standard descendent potential (for any target X). We use virtual localization and classical degeneracy calculations to find trigonometric closed form solutions for special Hodge integrals over the moduli space of pointed curves. These formulas are applied to two computations in Gromov-Witten theory for Calabi-Yau 3-folds. The genus g, degree d multiple cover contribution of a rational curve is found to be simply proportional to the Euler characteristic of M_g. The genus g, degree 0 Gromov-Witten invariant is calculated (in agreement with recent string theoretic calculations of Gopakumar-Vafa and Marino-Moore). Finally, with Zagier's help, our Hodge integral formulas imply a general genus prediction of the punctual Virasoro constraints applied to the projective line. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Andamento del rapporto µ+ /µ- per muoni atmosferici di alta energia ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Non-conformal gauge/string duality A rigorous case study ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Non-conformal gauge/string duality A rigorous case study ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Conformal Field Theories in the Epsilon and 1/N Expansions ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
A note on the Schottky problem ENDTITLE A note on the Schottky problem ENDTITLES In this article, we discuss and survey the recent progress towards the Schottky problem, and make some comments on the relations between the Andr{\'e}-Oort conjecture, Okounkov convex bodies, Coleman's conjecture, stable modular forms, Siegel-Jacobi spaces, stable Jacobi forms and the Schottky problem. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Ruptura de isoespín y restauración de simetría quiral en gases de mesones ligeros ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Ruptura de isoespín y restauración de simetría quiral en gases de mesones ligeros ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Finite-lattice form factors in free-fermion models ENDTITLE Finite-lattice form factors in free-fermion models ENDTITLE Finite-lattice form factors in free-fermion models ENDTITLES We consider the general $\mathbb{Z}_2$-symmetric free-fermion model on the finite periodic lattice, which includes as special cases the Ising model on the square and triangular lattices and $\mathbb{Z}_n$-symmetric BBS $\tau^{(2)}$-model with $n=2$. Translating Kaufman's fermionic approach to diagonalization of Ising-like transfer matrices into the language of Grassmann integrals, we determine the transfer matrix eigenvectors and observe that they coincide with the eigenvectors of a square lattice Ising transfer matrix. This allows to find exact finite-lattice form factors of spin operators for the statistical model and the associated finite-length quantum chains, of which the most general is equivalent to the XY chain in a transverse field. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Monodromy dependence and connection formulae for isomonodromic tau functions ENDTITLE Monodromy dependence and connection formulae for isomonodromic tau functions ENDTITLES We discuss an extension of the Jimbo-Miwa-Ueno differential 1-form to a form closed on the full space of extended monodromy data of systems of linear ordinary differential equations with rational coefficients. This extension is based on the results of M. Bertola generalizing a previous construction by B. Malgrange. We show how this 1-form can be used to solve a long-standing problem of evaluation of the connection formulae for the isomonodromic tau functions which would include an explicit computation of the relevant constant factors. We explain how this scheme works for Fuchsian systems and, in particular, calculate the connection constant for generic Painlev\'e VI tau function. The result proves the conjectural formula for this constant proposed in \cite{ILT13}. We also apply the method to non-Fuchsian systems and evaluate constant factors in the asymptotics of Painlev\'e II tau function. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
On the connection problem for Painlevé I ENDTITLE On the connection problem for Painlev\'e I ENDTITLE On the connection problem for Painlevé I ENDTITLES We study the dependence of the tau function of Painlev\'e I equation on the generalized monodromy of the associated linear problem. In particular, we compute connection constants relating the tau function asymptotics on five canonical rays at infinity. The result is expressed in terms of dilogarithms of cluster type coordinates on the space of Stokes data. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
A study on 7Li + 120Sn quasi-elastic scattering ENDTITLES In the present study, we reexamine quasi-elastic scattering of 7Li by 120Sn at incident energies E Lab = 19.5, 20.5, and 25.0 MeV. The theoretical results are obtained by using both a phenomenological model and double-folding model (DFM) within the framework of an optical model. We also investigate the role of the surface potential, which is connected to direct reactions. The agreement between the phenomenological model and the DFM is shown in comparison to each other in connection with the experimental data. This comparison provides information about the similarities and the differences between the models used during the calculations. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Computational Relativistic Electrodynamics: New Algorithms, Parallel Software, and Applications to Accelerator Design ENDTITLES A parallel, fully relativistic, 3D electromagnetic particle-in-cell (EM-PIC) code, named SPACE, has been developed for the simulation of relativistic particle beams, beam - plasma interaction, and plasma chemistry. New algorithms such as atomic processes in plasma, proper boundary conditions, and an efficient method for highly-relativistic beams in non-relativistic plasma have been developed. Algorithms for atomic process include ionization of neutral atoms by electron impact, recombination of plasma, and electron attachment on dopants in dense neutral gases. The code has been used for the simulation of processes in high-pressure radio-frequency (RF) cavity (HPRF) program at Fermilab. Advanced numerical simulations resolve all physically relevant processes in RF cavity filled with high-pressure gases and interacting with proton beams. Simulations also support broader research on the design of muon cooling devices. From simulation studies of microphysics processes, macroscopic and experimentally measurable quantities have been derived. Through comparison with experiments in the MTA, simulations quantified several uncertain values of plasma properties such as effective recombination rates and the attachment time of electrons to dopant molecules. Simulations have achieved very good agreement with experiments on plasma loading and related processes. The experimentally validated code SPACE will be used for simulations of muon cooling devices in regimes beyond current experimental capabilities. In addition, the code is used to study advanced coherent electron cooling (ACeC) for the e-RHIC project at BNL. Simulations study the modulation effect of highly relativistic ions of gold on co-propagating electron plasma and the amplification of modulation. Parallel simulations were able to track every real electron in physically relevant domains. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Neutrino interactions may explain supernova explosions ENDTITLE Neutrino interactions may explain supernova explosions ENDTITLES A recent theoretical calculation of neutrino–nucleon cross sections, based on neutral currents, has revived interest in a model that proposes neutrino interactions as the mechanism for explosions in supernovae. The neutrino idea was first suggested by Stirling Colgate of the New Mexico Institute of Mining and Technology and Richard White of the Lawrence Livermore Laboratory. Subsequent calculations were performed by W. David Arnett of the University of Texas and by L. N. Ivanova, V. S. Inshennik and D. K. Nadezhin at the Institute of Applied Mathematics of the USSR Academy of Sciences. A more refined calculation by James R. Wilson (Lawrence Livermore Laboratory) showed that the neutrino interaction then assumed (from the theory by Richard Feynman and Murray Gell‐Mann) was of the wrong form to account for explosions. Now Daniel Z. Freedman of the National Accelerator Laboratory has found that if neutral currents exist, the scattering of neutrinos by nuclei is coherent; thus the cross sections go as the square of the atomic weight. Wilson has redone his earlier calculations with the new cross sections and has found that they can account for explosions, depending on what values are assumed for the neutral‐current coupling constant and for the muon–neutrino opacity. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
String Phenomenology in the Era of the LHC ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
A process-level validation tool of GEANT4 physics for HPC resources ENDTITLE A process-level validation tool of GEANT4 physics for HPC resources ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Кварки-82. Материалы семинара, Сухуми, 5-7 мая 1982 г. ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Non-conformal gauge/string duality: A rigorous case study ENDTITLES The gauge/string duality, a.k.a. the holographic principle is a profound assertion that emerged from string theory. It relates strongly-coupled gauge theories to weakly coupled string theories living in a higher-dimensional curved geometry. Nevertheless, it is a conjecture, and only a few instances of its more concrete form, the AdS/CFT correspondence, are well-understood. The most well-studied example is the duality between N=4 SYM, which is a CFT, and type IIB string theory in AdS5xS5 background. Generalization to less symmetric cases is a must, and the next logical step is to add a mass scale to N=4 SYM, therefore breaking its conformal symmetry and leading to N=2* SYM, the theory we study in this thesis. It is supersymmetric enough to employ the powerful localization method that reduces its partition function to a matrix model. We will see that the mass scale causes non-trivial phase structures in its vacuum configuration, visible in the holographic regime. We will probe them using Wilson loops in different representations of the gauge group. On the other hand, the dual supergravity background was derived by Pilch-Warner, making N=2* theory an explicitly testable non-conformal holographic case, which is a rare example. We will prove that the duality works for the dual observables (string action, D-branes) we managed to compute, even at a quantum-level. ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
Dynamic AdS/QCD: A holographic approach to asymptotically free gauge theories ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Development of high-resolution detector module with depth of interaction identification for positron emission tomography ENDTITLE Development of high-resolution detector module with depth of interaction identification for positron emission tomography ENDTITLES We have developed a Time-of-flight high resolution and commercially viable detector module for the application in small PET scanners. A new approach to depth of interaction (DOI) encoding with low complexity for a pixelated crystal array using a single side readout and 4-to-1 coupling between scintillators and photodetectors was investigated. In this method the DOI information is estimated using the light sharing technique. The detector module is a 1.53×1.53×15 mm3 matrix of 8×8 LYSO scintillator with lateral surfaces optically depolished separated by reflective foils. The crystal array is optically coupled to 4×4 silicon photomultipliers (SiPM) array and readout by a high performance front-end ASIC with TDC capability (50 ps time binning). The results show an excellent crystal identification for all the scintillators in the matrix, a timing resolution of 530 ps, an average DOI resolution of 5.17 mm FWHM and an average energy resolution of 18.29% FWHM. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
The iMPACT project tracker and calorimeter ENDTITLE The iMPACT project tracker and calorimeter ENDTITLES In recent years the use of hadrons for cancer radiation treatment has grown in importance, and many facilities are currently operational or under construction worldwide. To fully exploit the therapeutic advantages offered by hadron therapy, precise body imaging for accurate beam delivery is decisive. While traditional X-ray Computed Tomography (xCT) fails in providing 3D images with the precision required for hadrons treatment guidance, Proton Computer Tomography (pCT) scanners, currently in their R&D phase, can. A pCT scanner consists of a tracker system, to track protons, and of a calorimeter, to measure their residual energy. In this paper we will present the iMPACT project, which foresees a novel proton tracking detector with higher scanning speed, better spatial resolution and lower material budget with respect to present state-of-the-art detectors, leading to enhanced performances. The tracker will be matched to a fast, highly segmented proton range calorimeter. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Low material budget floating strip Micromegas for ion transmission radiography ENDTITLE Low material budget floating strip Micromegas for ion transmission radiography ENDTITLES Floating strip Micromegas are high-accuracy and discharge insensitive gaseous detectors, able to track single particles at fluxes of 7 MHz/cm2 with 100 μm resolution. We developed low-material-budget detectors with one-dimensional strip readout, suitable for tracking at highest particle rates as encountered in medical ion transmission radiography or inner tracker applications. Recently we additionally developed Kapton-based floating strip Micromegas with two-dimensional strip readout, featuring an overall thickness of 0.011 X0. These detectors were tested in high-rate proton and carbon-ion beams at the tandem accelerator in Garching and the Heidelberg Ion-Beam Therapy Center, operated with an optimized Ne:CF4 gas mixture. By coupling the Micromegas detectors to a new scintillator based range detector, ion transmission radiographies of PMMA and tissue-equivalent phantoms were acquired. The range detector with 18 layers is read out via wavelength shifting fibers, coupled to a multi-anode photomultiplier. We present the performance of the Micromegas detectors with respect to timing and single plane track reconstruction using the μTPC method. We discuss the range resolution of the scintillator range telescope and present the image reconstruction capabilities of the combined system. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
The Muon Portal Project: Design and construction of a scanning portal based on muon tomography ENDTITLE The Muon Portal Project: Design and construction of a scanning portal based on muon tomography ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Preliminary results of the Gas Electron Multiplier (GEM) as real-time beam monitor in hadron therapy ENDTITLE Preliminary results of the Gas Electron Multiplier (GEM) as real-time beam monitor in hadron therapy ENDTITLES The use of proton and carbon ion beams in cancer therapy (also known as hadron therapy) is progressively growing worldwide due to their improved dose distributions, sparing of healthy tissues and (for carbon ions) increased radiobiological effectiveness especially for radio-resistant tumours. Strict Quality Assurance (QA) protocols need to be followed for guaranteeing the clinical beam specifications. The aim of this study was to assess the performance of a gaseous detector based on the Gas Electron Multiplier (GEM) technology for measuring the beam spot dimensions and the homogeneity of the scanned irradiation field, which are daily QA tasks commonly performed using radiochromic films. Measurements performed at the National Centre for Oncological Hadron Therapy (CNAO) in Pavia (Italy) showed that the detector is able to monitor the 2D beam image on-line with a pad granularity of 2 mm and a response proportional to the number of delivered particles. The dose homogeneity was measured with low deviation from the results obtained with radiochromic films. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Measurements of 55Fe activity in activated steel samples with GEMPix ENDTITLE Measurements of 55Fe activity in activated steel samples with GEMPix ENDTITLES In this paper we present a novel method, based on the recently developed GEMPix detector, to measure the 55Fe content in samples of metallic material activated during operation of CERN accelerators and experimental facilities. The GEMPix, a gas detector with highly pixelated read-out, has been obtained by coupling a triple Gas Electron Multiplier (GEM) to a quad Timepix ASIC. Sample preparation, measurements performed on 45 samples and data analysis are described. The calibration factor (counts per second per unit specific activity) has been obtained via measurements of the 55Fe activity determined by radiochemical analysis of the same samples. Detection limit and sensitivity to the current Swiss exemption limit are calculated. Comparison with radiochemical analysis shows inconsistency for the sensitivity for only two samples, most likely due to underestimated uncertainties of the GEMPix analysis. An operative test phase of this technique is already planned at CERN. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Multipole-field measurements by sampling oblong apertures of accelerator magnets ENDTITLE Multipole-field measurements by sampling oblong apertures of accelerator magnets ENDTITLES The rotating search coil is a commonly used tool to measure magnetic fields of accelerator magnets. The coil intercepts the magnetic flux at a radius given by the dimensions of the measurement shaft that comprises a set of search coils for the analog bucking of the main signal from the dipole field component. For magnets of a rectangular aperture with large aspect ratio (>3:1) the cylindrical domain covers only a portion of the magnet bore. As the field representation is dominated by measurement errors outside that cylindrical domain, a sampling technique is required. The method presented in this paper trades the precision in the measurements against the precision in the shaft positioning and arrives at a multipole representation that covers the entire bore of the magnet. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Correlation Functions in Integrable Theories: From weak to strong coupling ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Functional approach to N=4 super-Yang-Mills theory ENDTITLES Symmetries are of crucial importance to theoretical physics. The idea is to keep the theory invariant under continuous or discrete transformations. Supersymmetry (SUSY) is such a transformation between bosons and fermions. Due to that symmetry various new concepts have been developed, both in mathematics as well as in physics. Nevertheless until now no particles associated to SUSY have been detected. In this thesis N = 4 super-Yang-Mills theory (SYM) will be studied in Landau gauge. SYM is as a supersymmetric extension of Yang-Mills theory, where N = 4 refers to the number of supersymmetric charges Q. To solve the propagator equations a functional method called Dyson-Schwinger equations (DSEs) is used. A powerlaw like behaviour of the solutions is observed. To support that this powerlaw or scaling solutions are valid the already analytically known beta function β(g) = 0 is derived. In contrast to Yang-Mills Theory N = 4 SYM is highly constrained and therefore a valuable tool to test the understanding of the first. We use N = 4 SYM to take a look at non-perturbative Landau gauge as well as to understand how good the quality of the employed truncation is. We also want to understand if there is a Gribov-Singer ambiguity in N = 4 SYM, since this ambiguity has a vast impact on Yang-Mills theory. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Towards a microscopic Description of classical Solutions in Field Theory ENDTITLES Many experiments, for instance in cosmology and quantum field theory (QFT), imply that nature is fundamentally quantum. In this thesis we want to take this perspective as a starting point and investigate its consequences. From this point of view, every classical object should be understood as a quantum bound state of proper microscopic degrees of freedom. As a consequence, consistency requires that all the classical features should emerge from these underlying physics. Following this logic, we develop methods to represent classical fields in various examples in terms of constituents. If we take this premise seriously, it follows that QFT and subsequently unitarity even preexist inside a black hole. In other words, we should understand the black hole as a quantum bound state. Therefore, we can probe the black hole interior by high energy scattering experiments as it is usually done in quantum chromodynamics (QCD) for hadrons. We would expect by default that when we consider scattering energies of the order of the inverse Schwarzschild radius, we can measure the momentum distribution of the individual black hole constituents. Thus, we perform a consistency check that, indeed, the corresponding cross-section is proportional to the occupation number. As a next step, we develop the coherent state technique which can be used to represent generic classical fields as bound states. Using this method, we show how we can treat solitons in a microscopic description. In particular, we observe that the stability of the topological soliton can be associated with a diverging occupation number of large wavelength quanta. In ongoing work, we consider supersymmetric solitons from this perspective. It turns out that supersymmetry is completely broken by the quantum effects resulting from the back-reaction on the individual constituents. To apply these techniques to the instanton is more subtle. Therefore, instead of defining a coherent instanton state, we map the instanton on a higher dimensional soliton evolving in Euclidean time. More explicitly, we manufacture a situation where a soliton tunnels through an energetically forbidden barrier. A low energy observer which is confined to this region interprets this effect as an instanton from his lower dimensional point of view. Correspondingly, the instanton inherits all its features from the soliton. In this description, we observe that the scale invariance of the Belavin-Polyakov-Schwarz-Tyupkin (BPST) is broken, since the occupation number of the instanton is proportional to the size of the instanton. Furthermore, we investigate gravitational background metrics from the microscopic point of view. However, this is still work in progress. For instance, we discuss how we can use the very same coherent state techniques to describe Anti de-Sitter (AdS). Most notably, in this description the occupation number of the AdS bound state in the bulk seems to coincide with the entropy of the conformal field theory (CFT) on the boundary. This makes the holographic principle manifest from the quantum point of view. In addition, the compositeness of AdS leads to quantum corrections similar to the ones we uncovered for supersymmetric solitons. These corrections affect the propagation of a scalar in AdS and the Unruh radiation which is observed by a Rindler observer. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
High precision track reconstruction and first emittance measurements in the MICE step IV cooling channel ENDTITLES The International Muon Ionisation Cooling Experiment (MICE) is currently being commissioned at the Rutherford Appleton Laboratory (RAL) and aims to be the first experiment to demonstrate the technique of muon beam ionisation cooling, a key component in Neutrino Factory and Muon Collider designs. In order to do so, high precision muon track and beam phase-space reconstruction is required. A Kalman Filter based track fit has been designed, implemented and tested for the reconstruction of both straight and helical muon tracks, using data from the MICE Scintillating Fibre Trackers. Detailed Monte Carlo simulation studies have been conducted in order to verify the implementation and predict the performance of the fitting algorithms when applied to real data. A combination of simulation studies and statistical data analyses have been used to commission the track reconstruction software and perform simple validation techniques. The straight track reconstruction was applied to an alignment study, designed to measure the relative positions of the two tracking detectors within the MICE cooling channel. A translational resolution of 0.11 mm in both the x and y directions was extracted, in addition a rotational resolution of 0.05 mrad of the relative yaw, $\phi_x$ , and pitch, $\phi_y$ , between the two trackers was calculated. The helical track reconstruction was successfully used in the analysis of the first helical track data acquired within the MICE Cooling Channel. A momentum window of 195 to 205 MeV/c was applied to the default MICE muon beam, which resulted in 5049 reconstructed tracks with a normalised transverse emittance of 5.08 $\pm$ 0.05 Stat $\pm$ 0.06 Sys $\pm$ 0.02 Field mm. The systematic error was calculated based on the modelled momentum residuals, and a second systematic error, due to the incomplete knowledge of the true field, was estimated through comparisons of different field maps. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Naturalness in the Standard Model and beyond ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Non-perturbative aspects of Yang-Mills-Higgs theory ENDTITLES Yang-Mills-Higgs theory, being a part of the Standard Model, presents a great opportunity for investigation both from the point of view of theory and phenomenology. It contains regions in the theory’s parameter space which are suitable for Higgs like Physics and QCD like Physics. At the same time it presents a chance to study spectrum of the weak sector. For this purpose the choice of the SU(2) gauge group and scalar field in fundamental SU(2) are considered. The correlation functions are the key for investigation, because at least in principle knowing all the correlation functions gives us all the information about the theory under consideration. For the case of gauge dependent quantities, with the selection of minimal Landau gauge, propagators and three point vertices are considered for investigation in both regions of QCD like Physics and Higgs like Physics. It is found that even when scalar (Higgs) propagator and its vertices with the gauge fields are in agreement with what tree level perturbative calculations suggest, there is a considerable deviation in other propagators and other vertices. For the purpose of exploring spectrum in the theory, 0 + singlet and 1 − triplet channels are considered. The decay from 0 + to 1 − channel is also studied. There also exists a duality between single particle states and bound states, which is also studied in detail. For the Higgs which is discovered at LHC, the duality is found to exist while for heavier Higgs the existence of duality is no longer observed. Overall, the explored spectra suggest that Yang-Mills-Higgs theory may be a weakly interacting theory possibly till the time when Higgs mass is in TeV scale and the naive picture of a weakly interacting theory breaks down anyway and the theory becomes non-perturbative. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Deposition of superconducting niobium films for RF cavities by means of UHV cathodic Arc ENDTITLE Deposition of superconducting niobium films for RF cavities by means of UHV cathodic Arc ENDTITLES The Ultra-High-Vacuum (UHV) arc technology was proposed as an alternative for depositing thin superconducting films of pure niobium on the internal surfaces of RF cavities for particle accelerators. The paper describes status of research on the deposition of such films for the RF accelerating cavities. UHV arc-based devices, equipped with planar- or cylindrical-cathodes, are described. The main results of experiments and some characteristics of the arc-deposited thin Nb-films, as well as results obtained recently with the formation of such films, are also presented. The critical temperature Tc of the deposited Nb-films appeared to be very close to that of pure bulk niobium (Tc=9.26 K) and the transition to the superconducting state was very narrow. The deposited Nb-films had higher residual resistivity ratio (RRR) values (up to 80) and larger grains sizes, as compared with those sputtered at the same temperature. The paper also presents recent results of the Cu-cavity coating by means of an UHV linear (cylindrical) arc, operated at IPJ in Poland. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
EAS Time Structures with ARGO-YBJ experiment ENDTITLE EAS Time Structures with ARGO-YBJ experiment ENDTITLES Shower-by-shower fluctuations play a key role for the understanding of EAS morphology. Each observed event keeps track of the propagation through the atmosphere. This factor can influence the shape of time front and the sequence of arrival times. The design of the ARGO-YBJ detector offers a unique chance to have high resolution pictures of shower footprints at the ground. The time structure of the shower disc has been studied as a function of the distance to the shower axis. The curvature of the shower front, defined as the mean of time residuals with respect to a planar fit, has also been investigated in the energy range between 300 GeV and 100 TeV and its features employed to characterize the standard surface array observables. After a study on the shower time profile and on the lateral distribution at different time delay from the shower front, showers with large time residual rms with respect to the shower front have been investigated. The longitudinal time structures in data could help to better define selection criteria for particular analysis, such as gamma/hadron separation, composition or "exotic" physics, and allow a better determination of EAS disc structure and correlations between front profile, front thickness and core distance. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Single- and multi-foils 27 Al(p,3pn) 24 Na activation technique for monitoring the intensity of high-energy beams ENDTITLE Single- and multi-foils 27 Al(p,3pn) 24 Na activation technique for monitoring the intensity of high-energy beams ENDTITLES This paper discusses an experimental study of the spallation reaction 27Al(p,3pn)24Na in Al foils exposed to 24 GeV c−1 protons, in the context of monitoring the intensity of multi-GeV proton beams through foil activation techniques. Since this reaction is sensitive to secondary neutrons and other energetic secondary hadrons, it is important to evaluate the impact of the foil thickness on the calculation of the beam intensity. This effect is determined experimentally using a stack of Al foils of varying thickness. The experimental results are then compared to Monte Carlo simulations. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Effect of reducing Lu3+ content on the fabrication and scintillation properties of non-stoichiometric Lu3−xAl5O12:Ce ceramics ENDTITLE Effect of reducing Lu3+ content on the fabrication and scintillation properties of non-stoichiometric Lu3−xAl5O12:Ce ceramics ENDTITLES Lu3−xAl5O12:Ce optical ceramics (Lu3−xAG:Ce, x = 1, 2, 3 and 4 at.%, respectively) with Lu3+ compositions ranging from 1 to 4 at.% below stoichiometry content were fabricated by solid state reaction method and further optimized by an air-annealing process. The effect of Lu3+ deficiency on the optical, luminescence and scintillation properties of such a non-stoichiometric Lu3−xAl5O12:Ce ceramics was investigated. Significant influence in the material densification was found leading to strong changes in the transparency, radioluminescence (RL) and scintillation response of these ceramics. Within the range of 1–4 at.% Lu3+ deficiency, LuAl antisite defects were suppressed effectively and the Lu3−xAG:Ce ceramics displayed an extremely high RL intensity which reaches ∼4 times higher than that of the latest commercial LuAG:Ce single crystals while its transparency deteriorated. The microstructure, presence of foreign phases and charge traps acting in scintillation mechanism were also characterized by means of SEM, back scattered electron imaging and thermoluminescence techniques, respectively. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Growth and characterization of Ce-doped YAG and LuAG fibers ENDTITLE Growth and characterization of Ce-doped YAG and LuAG fibers ENDTITLES Undoped and Ce-doped Lu3Al5O12 (LuAG) and Y3Al5O12 (YAG) single crystal fibers were grown by the micro-pulling down technique (μ-PD) with a purpose to fit the design of new dual-readout calorimeter planned to operate in future experiences of high energy physics. Fibers up to 20 cm in length and 1 mm in diameter were grown along [111] direction. Based on the measurements of the attenuation length along the fibers, the growth conditions to improve the fibers quality were selected. Our results showed that the grown fibers have the capability to be used for future detectors. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Ion implantation in titanium dioxide thin films studied by perturbed angular correlations ENDTITLE Ion implantation in titanium dioxide thin films studied by perturbed angular correlations ENDTITLES The local environment in titanium dioxide was studied by the time dependent perturbed c-c angular correlation of 111In/111Cd and 181Hf/181Ta at the Helmholtz-Institut f€ur Strahlen-und Kernphysik, Bonn. An introduction to the implantation methodologies performed at the Bonn Radioisotope Separator is presented. The investigation was carried out on thin films, which were deposited by magnetic sputtering on Si. The results show two different sites for both probe nuclei with unique electric quadrupole interaction. Using 111Cd one of them has been attributed to the substitutional Ti at the rutile structure. For 181Ta, the spectra show the anatase phase, with a well-defined electric quadrupole frequency. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Multiple coulomb scattering in the MICE experiment ENDTITLES The International Muon Ionisation Cooling Experiment (MICE) aims to give the first demonstration of ionisation cooling. MICE will use a low Z absorber to first reduce the momentum of a muon beam; then use a series of radio-frequency (RF) cavities to restore its longitudinal momentum. This action will reduce the overall phase-space volume of the muon beam. The goal of MICE is to reduce the emittance of a muon beam by 5% and to measure the change in emittance to a precision of 1%. In 2011 MICE took data in its Step I configuration with the goal of understanding the muon beam that will serve the MICE experiment. In order to evaluate the expected performance of the beam using extensive simulation data the MICE user software had to be installed on the Grid. A G4beamline model of the MICE muon beam was updated and validated with Step I data and used for production jobs on the Grid. The results presented in this thesis demonstrate that the simulation is in good agreement with data. These data were also used to determine the pion contamination in the MICE muon beam using the Time-Of-Flight (TOF) and Kloe-light (KL) detectors. The measurement of ionisation cooling in MICE relies on the selection of a pure sample of muons that traverse the experiment. To make this selection, the MICE Muon Beam is designed to deliver a beam of muons with less than ~1% contamination. The upper limit for the pion contamination measured in this thesis is less than 1.4% at 90% C.L., including systematic uncertainties. A similar procedure applied to the G4Beamline and MAUS Monte Carlo simulation yields a pion contamination of less than 1.7% at 90\% C.L., including statistical and systematic errors. The expectation from the simulated MICE Muon Beam is for a contamination of (0.22 +/- 0.01)%. Therefore, the MICE Muon Beam is able to meet the stringent pion-contamination requirements for the study of ionisation cooling. In 2015 and 2016, MICE took data in its Step IV configuration giving the first measurement of multiple scattering with the MICE apparatus. In this thesis the results of the measurement of the scattering of muons in gaseous xenon and lithium hydride are reported. The motivation for the gaseous xenon measurement is to benchmark Multiple Coulomb Scattering (MCS) in a high-Z material, in order to perform further measurements of MCS in the MICE experiment. From this baseline the same analysis was applied to the lithium hydride data, a material for which it is essential to accurately model the MCS for the demonstration of ionisation cooling for muon acceleration. Results from this analysis are compared to GEANT4 simulations and to predictions from an analytical formula advocated by the Particle Data Group (PDG). ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Multiple Scattering and Particle Identification in the Muon Ionisation Cooling Experiment ENDTITLES The Muon Ionisation Cooling experiment aims to measure the effect of pass- ing through low Z materials on the emittance of muons. This process is dependent on energy loss and multiple scattering through the material, which is currently not well understood for muons, and so it is necessary to study these effects. These studies require muon samples with high purity, greater than 99.9% upstream of the MICE cooling channel, for which strong particle identification is required. A Global Particle Identification software framework has been developed, its performance assessed, and then applied to both Monte Carlo and MICE data. Monte Carlo studies have shown that the software can achieve the required purity. An analysis of multiple scattering of muons through Lithium Hydride has also been presented, using a method designed for the presence of magnetic fields in the cooling channel. This has been applied for Monte Carlo input in both the presence and absence of fields, and for data taken in the absence of fields, which is all of the scattering data taken thus far in MICE. The results of these studies have been compared with both the Wentzel-VI model of scattering implemented in Geant4 and with the PDG approximation for multiple scattering, which has shown that Wentzel-VI underestimates the widths of the scattering distributions, while the PDG approximation overestimates their widths, in particular the width of the distributions of the 3D space angle. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Effects of beam temperature and plasma frequency on the radiation growth rate of a FEL with a laser wiggler ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Design and performance of the cooling system for the electromagnetic calorimeter of CMS ENDTITLE Design and performance of the cooling system for the electromagnetic calorimeter of CMS ENDTITLES For the physics program of the CMS experiment at the LHC to be carried out successfully, excellent electromagnetic calorimetry is required. Given the thermal properties of CMS ECAL, keeping the constant term of the energy resolution below 0.5% needs its temperature to be stabilized at 18/spl deg/C within 0.05/spl deg/C. A prototype module of ECAL with the final cooling system has been tested at CERN to check its integration with the read-out electronics and verify that it complies with the severe thermal requirements. The thermal performance of the cooling system is reported here. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
The CMS Simulation Software ENDTITLE The CMS Simulation Software ENDTITLES Abstract: In this paper we present the features and the expected performance of the re-designed CMS simulation software, as well as the experience from the migration process. Today, the CMS simulation suite is based on the two principal components - Geant4 detector simulation toolkit and the new CMS offline Framework and Event Data Model. The simulation chain includes event generation, detector simulation, and digitization steps. With Geant4, we employ the full set of electromagnetic and hadronic physics processes and detailed particle tracking in the 4 Tesla magnetic field. The Framework provides "action on demand" mechanisms, to allow users to load dynamically the desired modules and to configure and tune the final application at the run time. The simulation suite is used to model the complete central CMS detector (over 1 million of geometrical volumes) and the forward systems, such as Castor calorimeter and Zero Degree Calorimeter, the Totem telescopes, Roman Pots, and the Luminosity Monitor. The designs also previews the use of the electromagnetic and hadronic showers parametrization, instead of full modelling of high energy particles passage through a complex hierarchy of volumes and materials, allowing significant gain in speed while tuning the simulation to test beam and collider data. Physics simulation has been extensively validated by comparison with test beam data and previous simulation results. The redesigned and upgraded simulation software was exercised for performance and robustness tests. It went into Production in July 2006, running in the US and EU grids, and has since delivered about 60 millions of events. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Construction of thin shell wormholes from metric f(R) gravity ENDTITLE Construction of thin shell wormholes from metric f(R) gravity ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Rejected
The passage of nucleons through matter ENDTITLES (Translated from the Russian abstract): The deceleration of nucleons taking into account proton-neutron charge exchange is considered. Original Russian abstract [Zh.Eksp.Teor.Fiz. 19(1949)953]: Рассматривается торможение нуклонов с учетом перезарядки протон-нейтрон. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
The passage of nucleons through matter ENDTITLES (Translated from the Russian abstract): The deceleration of nucleons taking into account proton-neutron charge exchange is considered. Original Russian abstract [Zh.Eksp.Teor.Fiz. 19(1949)953]: Рассматривается торможение нуклонов с учетом перезарядки протон-нейтрон. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Vakdyn, a program to calculate time dependent pressure profiles ENDTITLE Vakdyn, a program to calculate time dependent pressure profiles ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
The arrival-time spectrum of hot Coulomb explosions ENDTITLE The arrival-time spectrum of hot Coulomb explosions ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Ideas for an interferometric thermometer ENDTITLE Ideas for an interferometric thermometer ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Some thoughts regarding a method to measure the length of femto-second X-ray pulses ENDTITLE Some thoughts regarding a method to measure the length of femto-second X-ray pulses ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
The TSL neutron beam facility ENDTITLE The TSL neutron beam facility ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Development of a compact proton scanning system in Uppsala with a moveable second magnet ENDTITLE Development of a compact proton scanning system in Uppsala with a moveable second magnet ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
An electron energy loss spectrometer based streak camera for time resolved TEM measurements ENDTITLE An electron energy loss spectrometer based streak camera for time resolved TEM measurements ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
The scattering of baby Skyrmions off potential obstructions, in a Landau-Lifshitz model ENDTITLES The dynamics of baby skyrmions of the (2+1) new baby Skyrme model, in a Landau - Lifshitz model, was studied in the presence of various potential obstructions of varying geometries. The potential obstructions were created by introducing a localised inhomogeneity in the new baby Skyrme model's potential coefficient. The size and shape of the potential obstruction was varied and two systems were investigated, namely the symmetric and asymmetric systems. In the symmetric system the trajectory of the baby skyrmions, as they traverse the barrier, was deformed from the normal circular trajectory, during which time the skyrmions sped up. For critical values of the barrier height, the baby skyrmions no longer formed a bound state and were free to separate. In the case of a potential hole, the baby skyrmions no longer formed a bound state and moved asymptotically along the edge of the hole. In the asymmetric barrier system the baby skyrmions behaved the same as the skyrmions of the symmetric obstructions. Away from the obstruction the baby skyrmions orbited the boundary of the system. In the potential hole system the bound skyrmions moved along the edge of the hole. For critical values of the hole depth, the bound state between the skyrmions was broken, resulting in one of the skyrmions remaining stationary and the other traversing the edge of the hole. During our investigations into this system it was found that the definition of the angular momentum must be modified to ensure overall conservation. It was shown how these modifications arise and how they are calculated. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Relative Calibration of the Time Transfer Link between CERN and LNGS for Precise Neutrino Time of Flight Measurements ENDTITLES —The relative calibration of the GPS time link between European Organization for Nuclear Research (CERN) and Gran Sasso National Laboratory (LNGS), performed in 2011, is reviewed. “Relative” means that traveling equipment was used to calibrate the delay of the link as a whole, but no information on absolute delays of individual components was gained. The precisely calibrated GPS link was used in the framework of the measurement of the time of flight of neutrinos generated in the CERN Neutrino to Gran Sasso (CNGS) experiment and measured with the Oscillation Project with Emulsion Tracking Apparatus (OPERA) detector at LNGS. ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Role of projectile breakup on quasi-elastic excitation function in the reaction of 7Li with 209Bi ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Phase–space noncommutativity and the thermodynamics of the Landau system ENDTITLE Phase–space noncommutativity and the thermodynamics of the Landau system ENDTITLES Thermodynamics of the Landau system in noncommutative phase–space (NCPS) has been studied in this paper. The analysis involves the use of generalized Bopp-shift transformations to map the noncommutative (NC) system to its commutative equivalent system. The partition function of the system is computed and from this, the magnetization and the susceptibility of the Landau system are obtained. The results reveal that the magnetization and the susceptibility get modified by both the spatial and momentum NC parameters 𝜃 and 𝜃̄ . We then investigate the de Hass–van Alphen effect in NCPS. Here, the oscillation of the magnetization and the susceptibility get corrected by both the spatial and momentum NC parameters 𝜃 and 𝜃̄ . ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
素粒子物理学の非摂動的側面 ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
Extensive air shower simulation and study on some properties of primary cosmic rays using different hadronic interaction models ENDTITLES  ENDABSTRACTS CORE
A mixed dimensional Bose polaron ENDTITLES A new generation of cold atom experiments trapping atomic mixtures in species selective optical potentials opens up the intriguing possibility to create systems in which different atoms live in different spatial dimensions. Inspired by this, we investigate a mixed dimensional Bose polaron consisting of an impurity particle moving in a two-dimensional (2D) layer immersed in a 3D Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC), using a theory that includes the mixed dimensional vacuum scattering between the impurity and the bosons exactly. We show that similarly to the pure 3D case, this system exhibits a well-defined polaron state for attractive boson-impurity interaction that evolves smoothly into a mixed-dimensional dimer for strong attraction, as well as a well-defined polaron state for weak repulsive interaction, which becomes over-damped for strong interaction. We furthermore find that the properties of the polaron depend only weakly on the gas parameter of the BEC as long as the Bogoliubov theory remains a valid description for the BEC. This indicates that higher order correlations between the impurity and the bosons are suppressed by the mixed dimensional geometry in comparison to a pure 3D system, and that the mixed dimensional polaron has universal properties in the unitarity limit of the impurity-boson interaction. ENDABSTRACTS 
Coherent control of flexural vibrations in dual-nanoweb fibers using phase-modulated two-frequency light ENDTITLES Coherent control of the resonant response in spatially extended optomechanical structures is complicated by the fact that the optical drive is affected by the back-action from the generated phonons. Here we report a new approach to coherent control based on stimulated Raman-like scattering, in which the optical pressure can remain unaffected by the induced vibrations even in the regime of strong optomechanical interactions. We demonstrate experimentally coherent control of flexural vibrations simultaneously along the whole length of a dual-nanoweb fiber, by imprinting steps in the relative phase between the components of a two-frequency pump signal,the beat frequency being chosen to match a flexural resonance. Furthermore, sequential switching of the relative phase at time intervals shorter than the lifetime of the vibrations reduces their amplitude to a constant value that is fully adjustable by tuning the phase-modulation depth and switching rate. The results may trigger new developments in silicon photonics, since such coherent control uniquely decouples the amplitude of optomechanical oscillations from power-dependent thermal effects and nonlinear optical loss. ENDABSTRACTS 
Dynamics and fragmentation mechanism of (CH3-C5H5)Pt(CH3)3 on SiO2 Surfaces ENDTITLES The interaction of (CH3-C5H5)Pt(CH3)3 (trimethyl methylcyclopentadienyl platinum) molecules on the fully and partially hydroxylated SiO2 surfaces and their dynamics were investigated using density functional theory (DFT) calculations to explain the initial reactions occurring during the electron beam induced deposition process of Pt. Partially hydroxylated surfaces that contain exposed surface Si atoms are found to activate the precursor. Our DFT results illustrate that the fragmentation of (CH3-C5H5)Pt(CH3)3 are orientation dependent and might occur either with the release of a methyl group or the cyclopentadienyl ring. To favor the assistance of the methyl group, the presence of another active site on the SiO2 surface is necessary and the fragmented methyl groups are bound to the surface active site. Our molecular dynamics simulations furthermore illustrate, that the separation of the methyl-cyclopentadienyl ring from Pt might be the source for organic contamination in initial layers of the deposits. A detailed mechanistic pathway has been computed for the dissociation of the (CH3-C5H5)Pt(CH3)3 precursor on SiO2 surfaces, which illustrates that oxidized Pt is formed on the surface, prior to metal deposition. ENDABSTRACTS 
Notes on the replica symmetric solution of the classical and quantum SK model, including the matrix of second derivatives and the spin glass susceptibility ENDTITLES A review of the replica symmetric solution of the classical and quantum, infinite-range, Sherrington-Kirkpatrick spin glass is presented. ENDABSTRACTS 
Approximating simple locally compact groups by their dense locally compact subgroups ENDTITLES The class, denoted by $\mathscr{S}$, of totally disconnected locally compact groups which are non-discrete, compactly generated, and topologically simple contains many compelling examples. In recent years, a general theory for these groups, which studies the interaction between the compact open subgroups and the global structure, has emerged. In this article, we study the non-discrete totally disconnected locally compact groups $H$ that admit a continuous embedding with dense image into some $G\in \mathscr{S}$; that is, we consider the dense locally compact subgroups of groups $G\in \mathscr{S}$. We identify a class $\mathscr{R}$ of almost simple groups which properly contains $\mathscr{S}$ and is moreover stable under passing to a non-discrete dense locally compact subgroup. We show that $\mathscr{R}$ enjoys many of the same properties previously obtained for $\mathscr{S}$ and establish various original results for $\mathscr{R}$ that are also new for the subclass $\mathscr{S}$, notably concerning the structure of the local Sylow subgroups and the full automorphism group. ENDABSTRACTS 
Elucidating the escape dynamics of the four hill potential ENDTITLES The escape mechanism of the four hill potential is explored. A thorough numerical investigation takes place in several types of two-dimensional planes and also in a three-dimensional subspace of the entire four-dimensional phase space in order to distinguish between bounded (ordered and chaotic) and escaping orbits. The determination of the location of the basins of escape toward the different escape channels and their correlations with the corresponding escape time of the orbits is undoubtedly an issue of paramount importance. It was found that in all examined cases all initial conditions correspond to escaping orbits, while there is no numerical indication of stable bounded motion, apart from some isolated unstable periodic orbits. Furthermore, we monitor how the fractality evolves when the total orbital energy varies. The larger escape periods have been measured for orbits with initial conditions in the fractal basin boundaries, while the lowest escape rates belong to orbits with initial conditions inside the basins of escape. We hope that our numerical analysis will be useful for a further understanding of the escape dynamics of orbits in open Hamiltonian systems with two degrees of freedom. ENDABSTRACTS 
Convergence results for a common solution of a finite family of equilibrium problems and quasi-Bregman nonexpansive mappings in Banach space ENDTITLES We introduce an iterative process for finding common fixed point of finite family of quasi-Bregman nonexpansive mappings which is a unique solution of some equilibrium problem. ENDABSTRACTS 
Solving Multivariate Polynomial Systems and an Invariant from Commutative Algebra ENDTITLES The security of several post-quantum cryptosystems is based on the assumption that solving a system of multivariate (quadratic) polynomial equations $p_1=\dots=p_m=0$ over a finite field is hard. Such a system can be solved by computing a lexicographic Gr\"obner basis of the ideal $(p_1,\dots,p_m)$. The most efficient algorithms for computing Gr\"obner bases, such as $F_4$ and $F_5$, transform the problem into several instances of Gaussian elimination. The computational complexity of these algorithms is not completely understood, especially when the polynomials $p_1,\dots,p_m$ are non-homogeneous. In this paper, we prove that this complexity is bounded by a function of the Castelnuovo-Mumford regularity of the ideal $(p_1^h,\dots,p_m^h)$ obtained by homogenizing the input polynomials. This allows us to bound the complexity of solving a system of polynomial equations when the associated ideal is zero-dimensional, a common situation in cryptography. More precisely, we show that the degree of the polynomials involved in the computation a Gr\"obner basis of a zero-dimensional ideal grows at most linearly in the number of variables. In combination with some theorems in commutative algebra, our results also allow us to bound the complexity of some instances of the MinRank Problem. ENDABSTRACTS 
Balanced Quantization: An Effective and Efficient Approach to Quantized Neural Networks ENDTITLES Quantized Neural Networks (QNNs), which use low bitwidth numbers for representing parameters and performing computations, have been proposed to reduce the computation complexity, storage size and memory usage. In QNNs, parameters and activations are uniformly quantized, such that the multiplications and additions can be accelerated by bitwise operations. However, distributions of parameters in Neural Networks are often imbalanced, such that the uniform quantization determined from extremal values may under utilize available bitwidth. In this paper, we propose a novel quantization method that can ensure the balance of distributions of quantized values. Our method first recursively partitions the parameters by percentiles into balanced bins, and then applies uniform quantization. We also introduce computationally cheaper approximations of percentiles to reduce the computation overhead introduced. Overall, our method improves the prediction accuracies of QNNs without introducing extra computation during inference, has negligible impact on training speed, and is applicable to both Convolutional Neural Networks and Recurrent Neural Networks. Experiments on standard datasets including ImageNet and Penn Treebank confirm the effectiveness of our method. On ImageNet, the top-5 error rate of our 4-bit quantized GoogLeNet model is 12.7\%, which is superior to the state-of-the-arts of QNNs. ENDABSTRACTS 
Improving Condition- and Environment-Invariant Place Recognition with Semantic Place Categorization ENDTITLES The place recognition problem comprises two distinct subproblems; recognizing a specific location in the world ("specific" or "ordinary" place recognition) and recognizing the type of place (place categorization). Both are important competencies for mobile robots and have each received significant attention in the robotics and computer vision community, but usually as separate areas of investigation. In this paper, we leverage the powerful complementary nature of place recognition and place categorization processes to create a new hybrid place recognition system that uses place context to inform place recognition. We show that semantic place categorization creates an informative natural segmenting of physical space that in turn enables significantly better place recognition performance in comparison to existing techniques. In particular, this new semantically informed approach adds robustness to significant local changes within the environment, such as transitioning between indoor and outdoor environments or between dark and light rooms in a house, complementing the capabilities of current condition-invariant techniques that are robust to globally consistent change (such as day to night cycles). We perform experiments using 4 benchmark and new datasets and show that semantically-informed place recognition outperforms the previous state-of-the-art systems. Like it does for object recognition [1], we believe that semantics can play a key role in boosting conventional place recognition and navigation performance for robotic systems. ENDABSTRACTS 
The Charming Leading Eigenpair ENDTITLES The leading eigenpair (the couple of eigenvalue and its eigenvector) or the first nontrivial one has different names in different contexts. It is the maximal one in the matrix theory. The talk starts from our new results on computing the maximal eigenpair of matrices. For the unexpected results, our contribution is the efficient initial value for a known algorithm. The initial value comes from our recent theoretic study on the estimation of the leading eigenvalues. To which we have luckily obtained unified estimates which consist of the second part of the talk. In the third part of the talk, the original motivation of the study along this direction is explained in terms of a specific model. The paper is concluded by a brief overview of our study on the leading eigenvalue, or more generally on the speed of various stabilities. ENDABSTRACTS 
The Linearity of the Mitchell Order ENDTITLES We show from a weak comparison principal (the Ultrapower Axiom) that the Mitchell order is linear on certain kinds of ultrafilters: normal ultrafilters, Dodd solid ultrafilters, and assuming GCH, generalized normal ultrafilters. In the process we prove a generalization of Solovay's lemma to singular cardinals. ENDABSTRACTS 
Dynamic patterns of knowledge flows across technological domains: empirical results and link prediction ENDTITLES The purpose of this study is to investigate the structure and evolution of knowledge spillovers across technological domains. Specifically, dynamic patterns of knowledge flow among 29 technological domains, measured by patent citations for eight distinct periods, are identified and link prediction is tested for capability for forecasting the evolution in these cross-domain patent networks. The overall success of the predictions using the Katz metric implies that there is a tendency to generate increased knowledge flows mostly within the set of previously linked technological domains. This study contributes to innovation studies by characterizing the structural change and evolutionary behaviors in dynamic technology networks and by offering the basis for predicting the emergence of future technological knowledge flows. ENDABSTRACTS 
Monotonicity Methods for Input-to-State Stability of Nonlinear Parabolic PDEs with Boundary Disturbances ENDTITLES We introduce a monotonicity-based method for studying input-to-state stability (ISS) of nonlinear parabolic equations with boundary inputs. We first show that a monotone control system is ISS if and only if it is ISS w.r.t. constant inputs. Then we show by means of classical maximum principles that nonlinear parabolic equations with boundary disturbances are monotone control systems. With these two facts, we establish that ISS of the original nonlinear parabolic PDE with constant \textit{boundary disturbances} is equivalent to ISS of a closely related nonlinear parabolic PDE with constant \textit{distributed disturbances} and zero boundary condition. The last problem is conceptually much simpler and can be handled by means of various recently developed techniques. As an application of our results, we show that the PDE backstepping controller which stabilizes linear reaction-diffusion equations from the boundary is robust with respect to additive actuator disturbances. ENDABSTRACTS 
Regularity properties of nonlinear Schr\"odinger equations in vector-valued spaces ENDTITLES In this paper, regularity properties of Cauchy problem for linear and nonlinear abstract Schr\"odinger equations in vector-valued function spaces are obtained. ENDABSTRACTS 
Higher order regionally proximal equivalence relations for general minimal group actions ENDTITLES We introduce higher order regionally proximal relations suitable for an arbitrary acting group. For minimal abelian group actions, these relations coincide with the ones introduced by Host, Kra and Maass. Our main result is that these relations are equivalence relations whenever the action is minimal. This was known for abelian actions by a result of Shao and Ye. We also show that these relations lift through extensions between minimal systems. Answering a question by Tao, given a minimal system, we prove that the regionally proximal equivalence relation of order $d$ correspond to the maximal dynamical Antol\'in Camarena--Szegedy nilspace factor of order at most $d$. In particular the regionally proximal equivalence relation of order one corresponds to the maximal abelian group factor. Finally by using a result of Gutman, Manners and Varj\`u, under some restrictions on the acting group, it follows that the regionally proximal equivalence relation of order $d$ corresponds to the maximal pronilfactor of order at most $d$ (a factor which is an inverse limit of nilsystems of order at most $d$). ENDABSTRACTS 
Concentrating bound state solutions for a class of singularly perturbed fractional Schr\"odinger equations with a general nonlinearity ENDTITLES We are concerned with the following singularly perturbed fractional Schr\"{o}dinger equation: \[ \left\{ \begin{gathered} {\varepsilon ^{2s}}{( - \Delta )^s}u + V(x)u = f(u){\text{ in }}{\mathbb{R}^N}, \hfill u \in {H^s}({\mathbb{R}^N}),{\text{ }}u &gt; 0{\text{ on }}{\mathbb{R}^N}, \hfill \\ \end{gathered} \right. \] where $\varepsilon $ is a small positive parameter, $N&gt;2s$, ${( - \Delta )^s}$, $s \in (0,1)$ is the fractional Laplacian. Using variational technique, we construct a family of positive solutions ${u_\varepsilon } \in {H^s}({\mathbb{R}^N})$ which concentrates around the local minima of $V$ as $\varepsilon \to 0$ under general conditions on $f$ which we believe to be almost optimal. We recover the existence and concentration results already known for the case $s=1$ which corresponds to the results of J. Zhang, Z. Chen and W. Zou (J. London Math. Soc. 2014). ENDABSTRACTS 
GraphHP: A Hybrid Platform for Iterative Graph Processing ENDTITLES The Bulk Synchronous Parallel(BSP) computational model has emerged as the dominant distributed framework to build large-scale iterative graph processing systems. While its implementations(e.g., Pregel, Giraph, and Hama) achieve high scalability, frequent synchronization and communication among the workers can cause substantial parallel inefficiency. To help address this critical concern, this paper introduces the GraphHP(Graph Hybrid Processing) platform which inherits the friendly vertex-centric BSP programming interface and optimizes its synchronization and communication overhead. To achieve the goal, we first propose a hybrid execution model which differentiates between the computations within a graph partition and across the partitions, and decouples the computations within a partition from distributed synchronization and communication. By implementing the computations within a partition by pseudo-superstep iteration in memory, the hybrid execution model can effectively reduce synchronization and communication overhead while not requiring heavy scheduling overhead or graph-centric sequential algorithms. We then demonstrate how the hybrid execution model can be easily implemented within the BSP abstraction to preserve its simple programming interface. Finally, we evaluate our implementation of the GraphHP platform on classical BSP applications and show that it performs significantly better than the state-of-the-art BSP implementations. Our GraphHP implementation is based on Hama, but can easily generalize to other BSP platforms. ENDABSTRACTS 
Ptolemy-Alhazen problem and spherical mirror reflection ENDTITLES An ancient optics problem of Ptolemy, studied later by Alhazen, is discussed. This problem deals with reflection of light in spherical mirrors. Mathematically this reduces to the solution of a quartic equation, which we solve and analyze using a symbolic computation software. Similar problems have been recently studied in connection with ray-tracing, catadioptric optics, scattering of electromagnetic waves, and mathematical billiards, but we were led to this problem in our study of the so-called triangular ratio metric. ENDABSTRACTS 
On the averaging of elastic constants for polycrystals ENDTITLES Many materials of interest are polycrystals, i.e. aggregates of single crystals. Randomly distributed orientations of single crystals lead to macroscopically isotropic properties. Here, we briefly review strategies of calculating effective isotropic second and third order elastic constants from the single crystal ones. Our main emphasize is on single crystals of cubic symmetry. Especially the averaging of third order elastic constants has not been particularly successful in the past, and discrepancies have often been attributed to texturing of the polycrystal as well as to uncertainties in the measurement of elastic constants of both poly and single crystals. While this may well be true, we point out here also shortcomings in the theoretical averaging framework. ENDABSTRACTS 
Weighted compositions operators in functional Banach spaces: an axiomatic approach ENDTITLES We work with very general Banach spaces of analytic functions in the disk or other domains which satisfy a minimum number of natural axioms. Among the preliminary results, we discuss some implications of the basic axioms and characterize the functional Banach spaces in which every bounded analytic function is a pointwise multiplier. Next, we characterize (in various ways) the weighted composition operators among the bounded operators on such spaces, thus generalizing some well-known results on multiplication or composition operators. We also characterize the invertible weighted composition operators on the disk and on general Banach spaces of analytic functions on bounded domains under different sets of axioms whose connections we discuss by providing appropriate examples. This generalizes and complements various recent results by Gunatilake, Bourdon, and Hyv\"arinen- Lindstr\"om-Nieminen-Saukko. ENDABSTRACTS 
Blueprint for nanoscale NMR ENDTITLES Nitrogen vacancy (NV) centers in diamond have been used as ultrasensitive magnetometers to perform nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy of statistically polarized samples at 1 - 100 nm length scales. However, the spectral linewidth is typically limited to the kHz level, both by the NV sensor coherence time and by rapid molecular diffusion of the nuclei through the detection volume which in turn is critical for achieving long nuclear coherence times. Here we provide a blueprint for a set-up that combines a sensitivity sufficient for detecting NMR signals from nano- to micron-scale samples with a spectral resolution that is limited only by the nuclear spin coherence, i.e. comparable to conventional NMR. Our protocol detects the nuclear polarization induced along the direction of an external magnetic field with near surface NV centers using lock-in detection techniques to enable phase coherent signal averaging. Using NV centers in a dual role of NMR detector and optical hyperpolarization source to increase signal to noise, and in combination with Bayesian interference models for signal processing, nano/microscale NMR spectroscopy can be performed on sub-millimolar sample concentrations, several orders of magnitude better than the current state of the art. ENDABSTRACTS 
Theory of Dzyaloshinskii domain wall tilt in ferromagnetic nanostrips ENDTITLES We present an analytical theory of domain wall tilt due to a transverse in-plane magnetic field in a ferromagnetic nanostrip with out-of-plane anisotropy and Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interaction (DMI). The theory treats the domain walls as one-dimensional objects with orientation-dependent energy, which interact with the sample edges. We show that under an applied field the domain wall remains straight, but tilts at an angle to the direction of the magnetic field that is proportional to the field strength for moderate fields and sufficiently strong DMI. Furthermore, we obtain a nonlinear dependence of the tilt angle on the applied field at weaker DMI. Our analytical results are corroborated by micromagnetic simulations. ENDABSTRACTS 
Vortex precession dynamics in general radially symmetric potential traps in two-dimensional atomic Bose-Einstein condensates ENDTITLES We consider the motion of individual two-dimensional vortices in general radially symmetric potentials in Bose-Einstein condensates. We find that although in the special case of the parabolic trap there is a logarithmic correction in the dependence of the precession frequency $\omega$ on the chemical potential $\mu$, this is no longer true for a general potential $V(r) \propto r^p$. Our calculations suggest that for $p&gt;2$, the precession frequency scales with $\mu$ as $\omega \sim \mu^{-2/p}$. This theoretical prediction is corroborated by numerical computations, both at the level of spectral (Bogolyubov-de Gennes) stability analysis by identifying the relevant precession mode dependence on $\mu$, but also through direct numerical computations of the vortex evolution in the large $\mu$, so-called Thomas-Fermi, limit. Additionally, the dependence of the precession frequency on the radius of an initially displaced from the center vortex is examined and the corresponding predictions are tested against numerical results. ENDABSTRACTS 
Generating Long-term Trajectories Using Deep Hierarchical Networks ENDTITLES We study the problem of modeling spatiotemporal trajectories over long time horizons using expert demonstrations. For instance, in sports, agents often choose action sequences with long-term goals in mind, such as achieving a certain strategic position. Conventional policy learning approaches, such as those based on Markov decision processes, generally fail at learning cohesive long-term behavior in such high-dimensional state spaces, and are only effective when myopic modeling lead to the desired behavior. The key difficulty is that conventional approaches are "shallow" models that only learn a single state-action policy. We instead propose a hierarchical policy class that automatically reasons about both long-term and short-term goals, which we instantiate as a hierarchical neural network. We showcase our approach in a case study on learning to imitate demonstrated basketball trajectories, and show that it generates significantly more realistic trajectories compared to non-hierarchical baselines as judged by professional sports analysts. ENDABSTRACTS 
New upper bounds for Ramanujan primes ENDTITLES For $n\ge 1$, the $n^{\rm th}$ Ramanujan prime is defined as the smallest positive integer $R_n$ such that for all $x\ge R_n$, the interval $(\frac{x}{2}, x]$ has at least $n$ primes. We show that for every $\epsilon&gt;0$, there is a positive integer $N$ such that if $\alpha=2n\left(1+\dfrac{\log 2+\epsilon}{\log n+j(n)}\right)$, then $R_n&lt; p_{[\alpha]}$ for all $n&gt;N$, where $p_i$ is the $i^{\rm th}$ prime and $j(n)&gt;0$ is any function that satisfies $j(n)\to \infty$ and $nj'(n)\to 0$. ENDABSTRACTS 
Large amplitude tip/tilt estimation by geometric diversity for multiple-aperture telescopes ENDTITLES A novel method nicknamed ELASTIC is proposed for the alignment of multiple-aperture telescopes, in particular segmented telescopes. It only needs the acquisition of two diversity images of an unresolved source, and is based on the computation of a modified, frequency-shifted, cross-spectrum. It provides a polychromatic large range tip/tilt estimation with the existing hardware and an inexpensive noniterative unsupervised algorithm. Its performance is studied and optimized by means of simulations. They show that with 5000 photo-electrons/sub-aperture/frame and 1024x1024 pixel images, residues are within the capture range of interferometric phasing algorithms such as phase diversity. The closed-loop alignment of a 6 sub-aperture mirror provides an experimental demonstration of the effectiveness of the method. ENDABSTRACTS 
Two-gap superconductivity in Mo$_{8}$Ga$_{41}$ and its evolution upon the V substitution ENDTITLES Zero-field and transverse-field muon spin rotation/relaxation ($\mu$SR) experiments were undertaken in order to elucidate microscopic properties of a strongly-coupled superconductor Mo$_{8}$Ga$_{41}$ with $T_{\text{c}}=9.8$ K. The upper critical field extracted from the transverse-field $\mu$SR data exhibits significant reduction with respect to the data from thermodynamic measurements indicating the coexistence of two independent length scales in the superconducting state. Accordingly, the temperature-dependent magnetic penetration depth of Mo$_{8}$Ga$_{41}$ is described using the model, in which two s-wave superconducting gaps are assumed. The V for Mo substitution in the parent compound leads to the complete suppression of one superconducting gap, and Mo$_{7}$VGa$_{41}$ is well described within the single s-wave gap scenario. The reduction in the superfluid density and the evolution of the low-temperature resistivity upon the V substitution indicate the emergence of a competing state in Mo$_{7}$VGa$_{41}$ that may be responsible for the closure of one of the superconducting gaps. ENDABSTRACTS 
An all-dielectric bowtie waveguide with deep subwavelength mode confinement ENDTITLES To fulfil both size and power requirements for future photonic integrated circuits, an effective approach is to miniaturize photonic components. Surface plasmon polariton (SPP) is one of the most promising candidates for subwavelength mode confinement, however, structures based on SPP are subjected to inevitable high propagation loss. Here, we report an all-dielectric bowtie (ADB) waveguide consisting of two identical silicon wedges embedded in a silica cladding with a nanoscale gap. The gap behaves as a capacitor-like energy storage that makes the ADB waveguide have similar or even smaller mode area than the hybrid plasmonic waveguide. What is more important is that the ADB waveguide supports a quasi-TM eigenmode, which is lossless fundamentally. This makes our ADB waveguide have essential development in propagation length compared with the plasmonic waveguide. The ADB waveguide is fully compatible with semiconductor fabrication techniques and could give rise to truly nanoscale semiconductor-based photonics. ENDABSTRACTS 
Second Chern numbers of vector bundles and higher adeles ENDTITLES We give a construction of the second Chern number of a vector bundle over a smooth projective surface by means of adelic transition matrices for the vector bundle. The construction does not use an algebraic $K$-theory and depends on the canonical $\mathbb{Z}$-torsor of a locally linearly compact $k$-vector space. Analogs of certain auxiliary results for the case of an arithmetic surface are also discussed. ENDABSTRACTS 
Two populations mean-field monomer-dimer model ENDTITLES A two populations mean-field monomer-dimer model including both hard-core and attractive interactions between dimers is considered. The pressure density in the thermodynamic limit is proved to satisfy a three-dimensional variational principle. A detailed analysis is made in the limit in which one population is much smaller than the other and a ferromagnetic mean-field phase transition is found. ENDABSTRACTS 
Efficient Convex Optimization with Membership Oracles ENDTITLES We consider the problem of minimizing a convex function over a convex set given access only to an evaluation oracle for the function and a membership oracle for the set. We give a simple algorithm which solves this problem with $\tilde{O}(n^2)$ oracle calls and $\tilde{O}(n^3)$ additional arithmetic operations. Using this result, we obtain more efficient reductions among the five basic oracles for convex sets and functions defined by Gr\"otschel, Lovasz and Schrijver. ENDABSTRACTS 
Microservices Science and Engineering ENDTITLES In this paper we offer an overview on the topic of Microservices Science and Engineering (MSE) and we provide a collection of bibliographic references and links relevant to understand an emerging field. We try to clarify some misunderstandings related to microservices and Service-Oriented Architectures, and we also describe projects and applications our team have been working on in the recent past, both regarding programming languages construction and intelligent buildings. ENDABSTRACTS 
An approach to reachability analysis for feed-forward ReLU neural networks ENDTITLES We study the reachability problem for systems implemented as feed-forward neural networks whose activation function is implemented via ReLU functions. We draw a correspondence between establishing whether some arbitrary output can ever be outputed by a neural system and linear problems characterising a neural system of interest. We present a methodology to solve cases of practical interest by means of a state-of-the-art linear programs solver. We evaluate the technique presented by discussing the experimental results obtained by analysing reachability properties for a number of benchmarks in the literature. ENDABSTRACTS 
Strong Disorder Renormalization for the dynamics of Many-Body-Localized systems : iterative elimination of the fastest degree of freedom via the Floquet expansion ENDTITLES The Vosk-Altman Strong Disorder Renormalization for the unitary dynamics of various random quantum spin chains is reformulated as follows : the local degree of freedom characterized by the highest eigenfrequency $\Omega$ can be considered as a high-frequency-Floquet-periodic-driving for the neighboring slower degrees of freedom. Then the two first orders of the high-frequency expansion for the effective Floquet Hamiltonian can be used to generate the emergent Local Integrals of Motion (LIOMs) and to derive the renormalization rules for the effective dynamics of the remaining degrees of freedom. The flow for this effective Floquet Hamiltonian is equivalent to the RSRG-X procedure to construct the whole set of eigenstates that generalizes the Fisher RSRG procedure constructing the ground state. This general framework is applied to the random-transverse-field XXZ spin chain in its Many-Body-Localized phase, in order to derive the renormalization rules associated to the elimination of the biggest transverse field and to the elimination of the biggest coupling respectively. ENDABSTRACTS 
Ampleness equivalence and dominance for vector bundles ENDTITLES Hartshorne in "Ample vector bundles" proved that $E$ is ample if and only if $\OOO_{P(E)}(1)$ is ample. Here we generalize this result to flag manifolds associated to a vector bundle $E$ on a complex manifold $X$: For a partition $a$ we show that the line bundle $\it Q_a^s$ on the corresponding flag manifold $\mathcal{F}l_s(E)$ is ample if and only if $ \SSS_aE $ is ample. In particular $\det Q$ on $\it{G}_r(E)$ is ample if and only if $\wedge ^rE$ is ample.\\ We give also a proof of the Ampleness Dominance theorem that does not depend on the saturation property of the Littlewood-Richardson semigroup. ENDABSTRACTS 
Reconstructing the Forest of Lineage Trees of Diverse Bacterial Communities Using Bio-inspired Image Analysis ENDTITLES Cell segmentation and tracking allow us to extract a plethora of cell attributes from bacterial time-lapse cell movies, thus promoting computational modeling and simulation of biological processes down to the single-cell level. However, to analyze successfully complex cell movies, imaging multiple interacting bacterial clones as they grow and merge to generate overcrowded bacterial communities with thousands of cells in the field of view, segmentation results should be near perfect to warrant good tracking results. We introduce here a fully automated closed-loop bio-inspired computational strategy that exploits prior knowledge about the expected structure of a colony's lineage tree to locate and correct segmentation errors in analyzed movie frames. We show that this correction strategy is effective, resulting in improved cell tracking and consequently trustworthy deep colony lineage trees. Our image analysis approach has the unique capability to keep tracking cells even after clonal subpopulations merge in the movie. This enables the reconstruction of the complete Forest of Lineage Trees (FLT) representation of evolving multi-clonal bacterial communities. Moreover, the percentage of valid cell trajectories extracted from the image analysis almost doubles after segmentation correction. This plethora of trustworthy data extracted from a complex cell movie analysis enables single-cell analytics as a tool for addressing compelling questions for human health, such as understanding the role of single-cell stochasticity in antibiotics resistance without losing site of the inter-cellular interactions and microenvironment effects that may shape it. ENDABSTRACTS 
CO observations of the molecular gas in the galactic HII region Sh2-48; Evidence for cloud-cloud collision as a trigger of high-mass star formation ENDTITLES Understanding the mechanism of high-mass star formation is one of the top-priority issues in contemporary astrophysics. Sh2-48 is a galactic HII region located at 3.8kpc from the Sun. It harbors an O9.5-type star at the center of the HII region which is extended for ~10 arcsin. As a part of the FOREST Unbiased Galactic plane Imaging survey with the Nobeyama 45-m telescope (FUGIN) project, we obtained the CO J=1-0 dataset for a large area of Sh2-48 at a spatial resolution of 21 arcsec, which corresponds to ~0.4pc at 3.8kpc. The CO data revealed that the molecular gas having a total molecular mass of 8.5x10^4 M_sun is associated with Sh2-48, which shows a characteristic line-symmetric velocity gradient over ~4km/s. Such a velocity gradient cannot be formed by a spherical expansion the HII region. In this paper, we discuss a cloud-cloud collision scenario to interpret the observed signatures including the velocity gradient. By comparing between the observations and simulations, we found that this line-symmetric velocity gradient is an expected outcome of a collision between a cylindrical cloud and a large spherical cloud, and we concluded that the high-mass star formation in Sh2-48 was triggered by the collision. Our results reinforce the importance of cloud-cloud collision for high-mass star formation in the Milky Way. ENDABSTRACTS 
Constant Composition Codes as Subcodes of Linear Codes ENDTITLES In this paper, on one hand, a class of linear codes with one or two weights is obtained. Based on these linear codes, we construct two classes of constant composition codes, which includes optimal constant composition codes depending on LVFC bound. On the other hand, a class of constant composition codes is derived from known linear codes. ENDABSTRACTS 
Nonlinear Acceleration of Stochastic Algorithms ENDTITLES Extrapolation methods use the last few iterates of an optimization algorithm to produce a better estimate of the optimum. They were shown to achieve optimal convergence rates in a deterministic setting using simple gradient iterates. Here, we study extrapolation methods in a stochastic setting, where the iterates are produced by either a simple or an accelerated stochastic gradient algorithm. We first derive convergence bounds for arbitrary, potentially biased perturbations, then produce asymptotic bounds using the ratio between the variance of the noise and the accuracy of the current point. Finally, we apply this acceleration technique to stochastic algorithms such as SGD, SAGA, SVRG and Katyusha in different settings, and show significant performance gains. ENDABSTRACTS 
Ruled surfaces right normalized ENDTITLES This paper deals with skew ruled surfaces $\varPhi$ in the Euclidean space $\mathbb{E}^{3}$ which are right normalized, that is they are equipped with relative normalizations, whose support function is of the form $q(u,v) = \frac{f(u) + g(u)\, v}{w(u,v)}$, where $w^2(u,v)$ is the discriminant of the first fundamental form of $\varPhi$. This class of relatively normalized ruled surfaces contains surfaces such that their relative image $\varPhi^{*}$ is either a curve or it is as well as $\varPhi$ a ruled surface whose generators are, additionally, parallel to those of $\varPhi$. Moreover we investigate various properties concerning the Tchebychev vector field and the support vector field of such ruled surfaces. ENDABSTRACTS 
Jointly Learning Word Embeddings and Latent Topics ENDTITLES Word embedding models such as Skip-gram learn a vector-space representation for each word, based on the local word collocation patterns that are observed in a text corpus. Latent topic models, on the other hand, take a more global view, looking at the word distributions across the corpus to assign a topic to each word occurrence. These two paradigms are complementary in how they represent the meaning of word occurrences. While some previous works have already looked at using word embeddings for improving the quality of latent topics, and conversely, at using latent topics for improving word embeddings, such "two-step" methods cannot capture the mutual interaction between the two paradigms. In this paper, we propose STE, a framework which can learn word embeddings and latent topics in a unified manner. STE naturally obtains topic-specific word embeddings, and thus addresses the issue of polysemy. At the same time, it also learns the term distributions of the topics, and the topic distributions of the documents. Our experimental results demonstrate that the STE model can indeed generate useful topic-specific word embeddings and coherent latent topics in an effective and efficient way. ENDABSTRACTS 
Ground state properties of the bond alternating spin-$\frac{1}{2}$ anisotropic Heisenberg chain ENDTITLES Ground state properties, dispersion relations and scaling behaviour of spin gap of a bond alternating spin-$\frac{1}{2}$ anisotropic Heisenberg chain have been studied where the exchange interactions on alternate bonds are ferromagnetic (FM) and antiferromagnetic (AFM) in two separate cases. The resulting models separately represent nearest neighbour (NN) AFM-AFM and AFM-FM bond alternating chains. Ground state energy has been estimated analytically by using both bond operator and Jordan-Wigner representations and numerically by using exact diagonalization. Dispersion relations, spin gap and several ground state orders have been obtained. Dimer order and string orders are found to coexist in the ground state. Spin gap is found to develop as soon as the non-uniformity in alternating bond strength is introduced in the AFM-AFM chain which further remains non-zero for the AFM-FM chain. This spin gap along with the string orders attribute to the Haldane phase. The Haldane phase is found to exist in most of the anisotropic region similar to the isotropic point. ENDABSTRACTS 
A note on edge degree and spanning trail containing given edges ENDTITLES Let $G$ be a simple graph with $n\geq4$ vertices and $d(x)+d(y)\geq n+k$ for each edge $xy\in E(G)$. In this work we prove that $G$ either contains a spanning closed trail containing any given edge set $X$ if $|X|\leq k$, or $G$ is a well characterized graph. As a corollary, we show that line graphs of such graphs are $k$-hamiltonian. ENDABSTRACTS 
A geometric realization of the $m$-cluster categories of type $\tilde{D_n}$ ENDTITLES We show that a subcategory of the $m$-cluster category of type $\tilde{D_n}$ is isomorphic to a category consisting of arcs in an $(n-2)m$-gon with two central $(m-1)$-gons inside of it. We show that the mutation of colored quivers and $m$-cluster-tilting objects is compatible with the flip of an $(m+2)$-angulation. In the final part of this paper, we detail an example of a quiver of type $\tilde{D_7}$. ENDABSTRACTS 
The perfect spin injection in silicene FS/NS junction ENDTITLES We theoretically investigate the spin injection from a ferromagnetic silicene to a normal silicene (FS/NS), where the magnetization in the FS is assumed from the magnetic proximity effect. Based on a silicene lattice model, we demonstrated that the pure spin injection could be obtained by tuning the Fermi energy of two spin species, where one is in the spin orbit coupling gap and the other one is outside the gap. Moreover, the valley polarity of the spin species can be controlled by a perpendicular electric field in the FS region. Our findings may shed light on making silicene-based spin and valley devices in the spintronics and valleytronics field. ENDABSTRACTS 
Shape recognition of volcanic ash by simple convolutional neural network ENDTITLES Shape analyses of tephra grains result in understanding eruption mechanism of volcanoes. However, we have to define and select parameter set such as convexity for the precise discrimination of tephra grains. Selection of the best parameter set for the recognition of tephra shapes is complicated. Actually, many shape parameters have been suggested. Recently, neural network has made a great success in the field of machine learning. Convolutional neural network can recognize the shape of images without human bias and shape parameters. We applied the simple convolutional neural network developed for the handwritten digits to the recognition of tephra shapes. The network was trained by Morphologi tephra images, and it can recognize the tephra shapes with approximately 90% of accuracy. ENDABSTRACTS 
RelNet: End-to-End Modeling of Entities &amp; Relations ENDTITLES We introduce RelNet: a new model for relational reasoning. RelNet is a memory augmented neural network which models entities as abstract memory slots and is equipped with an additional relational memory which models relations between all memory pairs. The model thus builds an abstract knowledge graph on the entities and relations present in a document which can then be used to answer questions about the document. It is trained end-to-end: only supervision to the model is in the form of correct answers to the questions. We test the model on the 20 bAbI question-answering tasks with 10k examples per task and find that it solves all the tasks with a mean error of 0.3%, achieving 0% error on 11 of the 20 tasks. ENDABSTRACTS 
Generalized Nikolskii's property and asymptotic exponent in Markov's inequality ENDTITLES We introduce an asymptotic Markov's exponent and show that it is equal to Markov's exponent for a wide class of norms. As a consequence we obtain a lower bound for the optimal exponent in Markov's inequality considered with the norms possessing Nikolskii type property. ENDABSTRACTS 
Generalized Nikolskii's property and asymptotic exponent in Markov's inequality ENDTITLES We introduce an asymptotic Markov's exponent and show that it is equal to Markov's exponent for a wide class of norms. As a consequence we obtain a lower bound for the optimal exponent in Markov's inequality considered with the norms possessing Nikolskii type property. ENDABSTRACTS 
The $\epsilon$ expansion and Universality in three dimensions ENDTITLES It has been observed that the clasification into universality classes of critical behaviour, as established by perturbative renormalization group in the viscinity of four or six dimensions of space by the epsilon expansion, remains valid down to three dimensions in all known cases, even when purturbative renormalisation group fails in three dimensions. In this paper we argue that this classification into universality classes remains true in lower dimensions of space, even when purturbative renormalisation group fails, because of the well known phenomenon of eigenvalue repulsion. ENDABSTRACTS Non-CORE
Stable Automorphic Forms on Semisimple Groups ENDTITLES In this paper, we introduce the concept of stable automorphic forms on semisimple algebraic groups. We use the stability of automorphic forms to study infinite dimensional arithmetic varieties. ENDABSTRACTS 
Stable Automorphic Forms on Semisimple Groups ENDTITLES In this paper, we introduce the concept of stable automorphic forms on semisimple algebraic groups. We use the stability of automorphic forms to study infinite dimensional arithmetic varieties. ENDABSTRACTS 
Cohomology of the flag variety under PBW degenerations ENDTITLES PBW degenerations are a particularly nice family of flat degenerations of type A flag varieties. We show that the cohomology of any PBW degeneration of the flag variety surjects onto the cohomology of the original flag variety, and that this holds in an equivariant setting too. We also prove that the same is true in the symplectic setting when considering Feigin's linear degeneration of the symplectic flag variety. ENDABSTRACTS 
Fast Online Generalized Multiscale Finite Element Method using Constraint Energy Minimization ENDTITLES Local multiscale methods often construct multiscale basis functions in the offline stage without taking into account input parameters, such as source terms, boundary conditions, and so on. These basis functions are then used in the online stage with a specific input parameter to solve the global problem at a reduced computational cost. Recently, online approaches have been introduced, where multiscale basis functions are adaptively constructed in some regions to reduce the error significantly. In multiscale methods, it is desired to have only 1-2 iterations to reduce the error to a desired threshold. Using Generalized Multiscale Finite Element Framework, it was shown that by choosing sufficient number of offline basis functions, the error reduction can be made independent of physical parameters, such as scales and contrast. In this paper, our goal is to improve this. Using our recently proposed approach and special online basis construction in oversampled regions, we show that the error reduction can be made sufficiently large by appropriately selecting oversampling regions. Our numerical results show that one can achieve a three order of magnitude error reduction, which is better than our previous methods. We also develop an adaptive algorithm and enrich in selected regions with large residuals. In our adaptive method, we show that the convergence rate can be determined by a user-defined parameter and we confirm this by numerical simulations. The analysis of the method is presented. ENDABSTRACTS 
Towards device-independent information processing on general quantum networks ENDTITLES The violation of certain Bell inequalities allows for device-independent information processing secure against non-signalling eavesdroppers. However, this only holds for the Bell network, in which two or more agents perform local measurements on a single shared source of entanglement. To overcome the practical constraint that entangled systems can only be transmitted over relatively short distances, large-scale multi-source networks---in which entanglement is swapped between intermediate nodes---have been employed. Yet, to use Bell inequality violation to establish secure device-independent protocols between distant agents in such multi-source networks, the outcomes of intermediate entanglement swapping measurements must be post-selected---impeding the rate at which security can be established. Moreover, having multiple intermediate nodes in the network opens the door for generalised eavesdropping attacks not seen in the Bell network. Do there exist analogues of Bell inequalities for such multi-source networks whose violation is a resource for device-independent information processing without the need for post-selection? Recently, polynomial inequalities on the correlations classically achievable in multi-source networks have been derived. In this paper, the violation of these polynomial inequalities will be shown to allow for device-independent information processing without the need to condition on intermediate agents' outcomes. Moreover, their violation can prevent generalised eavesdropper attacks. ENDABSTRACTS 
K-Adaptability in Two-Stage Mixed-Integer Robust Optimization ENDTITLES We study two-stage robust optimization problems with mixed discrete-continuous decisions in both stages. Despite their broad range of applications, these problems pose two fundamental challenges: (i) they constitute infinite-dimensional problems that require a finite-dimensional approximation, and (ii) the presence of discrete recourse decisions typically prohibits duality-based solution schemes. We address the first challenge by studying a $K$-adaptability formulation that selects $K$ candidate recourse policies before observing the realization of the uncertain parameters and that implements the best of these policies after the realization is known. We establish conditions under which the $K$-adaptability problem remains continuous, convex and tractable, and we contrast them to the corresponding conditions for the two-stage robust optimization problem. We address the second challenge through a branch-and-bound scheme that enjoys asymptotic convergence in general and finite convergence under specific conditions. We illustrate the performance of our algorithm in numerical experiments involving benchmark data from several application domains. ENDABSTRACTS 
Metastability versus collapse following a quench in attractive Bose-Einstein condensates ENDTITLES We consider a Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) with attractive two-body interactions in a cigar-shaped trap, initially prepared in its ground state for a given negative scattering length, which is quenched to a larger absolute value of the scattering length. Using the mean-field approximation, we compute numerically, for an experimentally relevant range of aspect ratios and initial strengths of the coupling, two critical values of quench: one corresponds to the weakest attraction strength the quench to which causes the system to collapse before completing even a single return from the narrow configuration ("perihelion") in its breathing cycle. The other is a similar critical point for the occurrence of collapse before completing *two* returns. In the latter case, we also compute the limiting value, as we keep increasing the strength of the post-quench attraction towards its critical value, of the time interval between the first two perihelia. We also use a Gaussian variational model to estimate the critical quenched attraction strength below which the system is stable against the collapse for long times. These time intervals and critical attraction strengths---apart from being fundamental properties of nonlinear dynamics of self-attractive BECs---may provide clues to the design of upcoming experiments that are trying to create robust BEC breathers. ENDABSTRACTS 
Constrained Bayesian Optimization with Noisy Experiments ENDTITLES Randomized experiments are the gold standard for evaluating the effects of changes to real-world systems, including Internet services. Data in these tests may be difficult to collect and outcomes may have high variance, resulting in potentially large measurement error. Bayesian optimization is a promising technique for optimizing multiple continuous parameters for field experiments, but existing approaches degrade in performance when the noise level is high. We derive an exact expression for expected improvement under greedy batch optimization with noisy observations and noisy constraints, and develop a quasi-Monte Carlo approximation that allows it to be efficiently optimized. Experiments with synthetic functions show that optimization performance on noisy, constrained problems outperforms existing methods. We further demonstrate the effectiveness of the method with two real experiments conducted at Facebook: optimizing a production ranking system, and optimizing web server compiler flags. ENDABSTRACTS 
Statistical abstraction for multi-scale spatio-temporal systems ENDTITLES Spatio-temporal systems exhibiting multi-scale behaviour are common in applications ranging from cyber-physical systems to systems biology, yet they present formidable challenges for computational modelling and analysis. Here we consider a prototypic scenario where spatially distributed agents decide their movement based on external inputs and a fast-equilibrating internal computation. We propose a generally applicable strategy based on statistically abstracting the internal system using Gaussian Processes, a powerful class of non-parametric regression techniques from Bayesian Machine Learning. We show on a running example of bacterial chemotaxis that this approach leads to accurate and much faster simulations in a variety of scenarios. ENDABSTRACTS 
Optimal General Matchings ENDTITLES Given a graph $G=(V,E)$ and for each vertex $v \in V$ a subset $B(v)$ of the set $\{0,1,\ldots, d_G(v)\}$, where $d_G(v)$ denotes the degree of vertex $v$ in the graph $G$, a $B$-factor of $G$ is any set $F \subseteq E$ such that $d_F(v) \in B(v)$ for each vertex $v$, where $d_F(v)$ denotes the number of edges of $F$ incident to $v$. The general factor problem asks the existence of a $B$-factor in a given graph. A set $B(v)$ is said to have a {\em gap of length} $p$ if there exists a natural number $k \in B(v)$ such that $k+1, \ldots, k+p \notin B(v)$ and $k+p+1 \in B(v)$. Without any restrictions the general factor problem is NP-complete. However, if no set $B(v)$ contains a gap of length greater than $1$, then the problem can be solved in polynomial time and Cornuejols \cite{Cor} presented an algorithm for finding a $B$-factor, if it exists. In this paper we consider a weighted version of the general factor problem, in which each edge has a nonnegative weight and we are interested in finding a $B$-factor of maximum (or minimum) weight. In particular, this version comprises the minimum/maximum cardinality variant of the general factor problem, where we want to find a $B$-factor having a minimum/maximum number of edges. We present the first polynomial time algorithm for the maximum/minimum weight $B$-factor for the case when no set $B(v)$ contains a gap of length greater than $1$. This also yields the first polynomial time algorithm for the maximum/minimum cardinality $B$-factor for this case. ENDABSTRACTS 
Optimal General Matchings ENDTITLES Given a graph $G=(V,E)$ and for each vertex $v \in V$ a subset $B(v)$ of the set $\{0,1,\ldots, d_G(v)\}$, where $d_G(v)$ denotes the degree of vertex $v$ in the graph $G$, a $B$-factor of $G$ is any set $F \subseteq E$ such that $d_F(v) \in B(v)$ for each vertex $v$, where $d_F(v)$ denotes the number of edges of $F$ incident to $v$. The general factor problem asks the existence of a $B$-factor in a given graph. A set $B(v)$ is said to have a {\em gap of length} $p$ if there exists a natural number $k \in B(v)$ such that $k+1, \ldots, k+p \notin B(v)$ and $k+p+1 \in B(v)$. Without any restrictions the general factor problem is NP-complete. However, if no set $B(v)$ contains a gap of length greater than $1$, then the problem can be solved in polynomial time and Cornuejols \cite{Cor} presented an algorithm for finding a $B$-factor, if it exists. In this paper we consider a weighted version of the general factor problem, in which each edge has a nonnegative weight and we are interested in finding a $B$-factor of maximum (or minimum) weight. In particular, this version comprises the minimum/maximum cardinality variant of the general factor problem, where we want to find a $B$-factor having a minimum/maximum number of edges. We present the first polynomial time algorithm for the maximum/minimum weight $B$-factor for the case when no set $B(v)$ contains a gap of length greater than $1$. This also yields the first polynomial time algorithm for the maximum/minimum cardinality $B$-factor for this case. ENDABSTRACTS 
Nonlinear Sliding of Discontinuous Vector Fields and Singular Perturbation ENDTITLES We consider piecewise smooth vector fields (PSVF) defined in open sets $M\subseteq R^n$ with switching manifold being a smooth surface $\Sigma$. The PSVF are given by pairs $X = (X_+, X_-)$, with $X = X_+$ in $\Sigma_+$ and $X = X_-$ in $\Sigma_-$ where $\Sigma _+$ and $\Sigma _-$ are the regions on $M$ separated by $\Sigma.$ A regularization of $X$ is a 1-parameter family of smooth vector fields $X^{\epsilon},\epsilon&gt;0,$ satisfying that $X^{\epsilon}$ converges pointwise to $X$ on $M\setminus\Sigma$, when $\epsilon\rightarrow 0$. Inspired by the Fenichel Theory , the sliding and sewing dynamics on the discontinuity locus $\Sigma$ can be defined as some sort of limit of the dynamics of a nearby smooth regularization $X^{\epsilon}$. While the linear regularization requires that for every $\epsilon&gt;0$ the regularized field $X^{\epsilon}$ is in the convex combination of $X_+ $ and $X_- $ the nonlinear regularization requires only that $X^{\epsilon}$ is in a continuous combination of $X_+ $ and $X_- $. We prove that for both cases, the sliding dynamics on $\Sigma$ is determined by the reduced dynamics on the critical manifold of a singular perturbation problem. \end{abstract} ENDABSTRACTS 
Nonlinear Sliding of Discontinuous Vector Fields and Singular Perturbation ENDTITLES We consider piecewise smooth vector fields (PSVF) defined in open sets $M\subseteq R^n$ with switching manifold being a smooth surface $\Sigma$. The PSVF are given by pairs $X = (X_+, X_-)$, with $X = X_+$ in $\Sigma_+$ and $X = X_-$ in $\Sigma_-$ where $\Sigma _+$ and $\Sigma _-$ are the regions on $M$ separated by $\Sigma.$ A regularization of $X$ is a 1-parameter family of smooth vector fields $X^{\epsilon},\epsilon&gt;0,$ satisfying that $X^{\epsilon}$ converges pointwise to $X$ on $M\setminus\Sigma$, when $\epsilon\rightarrow 0$. Inspired by the Fenichel Theory , the sliding and sewing dynamics on the discontinuity locus $\Sigma$ can be defined as some sort of limit of the dynamics of a nearby smooth regularization $X^{\epsilon}$. While the linear regularization requires that for every $\epsilon&gt;0$ the regularized field $X^{\epsilon}$ is in the convex combination of $X_+ $ and $X_- $ the nonlinear regularization requires only that $X^{\epsilon}$ is in a continuous combination of $X_+ $ and $X_- $. We prove that for both cases, the sliding dynamics on $\Sigma$ is determined by the reduced dynamics on the critical manifold of a singular perturbation problem. \end{abstract} ENDABSTRACTS 
An analytic proof of the Krylov estimates for the complex Monge-Ampere equation and applications ENDTITLES We provide an analytic proof of a theorem of Krylov dealing with global $C^{1,1}$ estimates to solutons of degenerate complex Monge-Amp\`ere equations. As an application we show optimal regularity for various extremal functions with nonconstant boundary values. ENDABSTRACTS 
An analytic proof of the Krylov estimates for the complex Monge-Ampere equation and applications ENDTITLES We provide an analytic proof of a theorem of Krylov dealing with global $C^{1,1}$ estimates to solutons of degenerate complex Monge-Amp\`ere equations. As an application we show optimal regularity for various extremal functions with nonconstant boundary values. ENDABSTRACTS 
Positive solutions for second order boundary value problems with sign changing Green's functions ENDTITLES In this paper we analyse some possibilities of finding positive solutions for second order boundary value problems with Dirichlet and periodic boundary conditions, for which the correspondent Green's functions change sign. The obtained results can also be adapted to the Neumann and Mixed boundary conditions. ENDABSTRACTS 
Positive solutions for second order boundary value problems with sign changing Green's functions ENDTITLES In this paper we analyse some possibilities of finding positive solutions for second order boundary value problems with Dirichlet and periodic boundary conditions, for which the correspondent Green's functions change sign. The obtained results can also be adapted to the Neumann and Mixed boundary conditions. ENDABSTRACTS 
Existence of solutions of integral equations with asymptotic conditions ENDTITLES In this work we will consider integral equations defined on the whole real line and look for solutions which satisfy some certain kind of asymptotic behavior. To do that, we will define a suitable Banach space which, to the best of our knowledge, has never been used before. In order to obtain fixed points of the integral operator, we will consider the fixed point index theory and apply it to this new Banach space. ENDABSTRACTS 
Existence of solutions of integral equations with asymptotic conditions ENDTITLES In this work we will consider integral equations defined on the whole real line and look for solutions which satisfy some certain kind of asymptotic behavior. To do that, we will define a suitable Banach space which, to the best of our knowledge, has never been used before. In order to obtain fixed points of the integral operator, we will consider the fixed point index theory and apply it to this new Banach space. ENDABSTRACTS 
Fine-Grained Categorization via CNN-Based Automatic Extraction and Integration of Object-Level and Part-Level Features ENDTITLES Fine-grained categorization can benefit from part-based features which reveal subtle visual differences between object categories. Handcrafted features have been widely used for part detection and classification. Although a recent trend seeks to learn such features automatically using powerful deep learning models such as convolutional neural networks (CNN), their training and possibly also testing require manually provided annotations which are costly to obtain. To relax these requirements, we assume in this study a general problem setting in which the raw images are only provided with object-level class labels for model training with no other side information needed. Specifically, by extracting and interpreting the hierarchical hidden layer features learned by a CNN, we propose an elaborate CNN-based system for fine-grained categorization. When evaluated on the Caltech-UCSD Birds-200-2011, FGVC-Aircraft, Cars and Stanford dogs datasets under the setting that only object-level class labels are used for training and no other annotations are available for both training and testing, our method achieves impressive performance that is superior or comparable to the state of the art. Moreover, it sheds some light on ingenious use of the hierarchical features learned by CNN which has wide applicability well beyond the current fine-grained categorization task. ENDABSTRACTS 
Fine-Grained Categorization via CNN-Based Automatic Extraction and Integration of Object-Level and Part-Level Features ENDTITLES Fine-grained categorization can benefit from part-based features which reveal subtle visual differences between object categories. Handcrafted features have been widely used for part detection and classification. Although a recent trend seeks to learn such features automatically using powerful deep learning models such as convolutional neural networks (CNN), their training and possibly also testing require manually provided annotations which are costly to obtain. To relax these requirements, we assume in this study a general problem setting in which the raw images are only provided with object-level class labels for model training with no other side information needed. Specifically, by extracting and interpreting the hierarchical hidden layer features learned by a CNN, we propose an elaborate CNN-based system for fine-grained categorization. When evaluated on the Caltech-UCSD Birds-200-2011, FGVC-Aircraft, Cars and Stanford dogs datasets under the setting that only object-level class labels are used for training and no other annotations are available for both training and testing, our method achieves impressive performance that is superior or comparable to the state of the art. Moreover, it sheds some light on ingenious use of the hierarchical features learned by CNN which has wide applicability well beyond the current fine-grained categorization task. ENDABSTRACTS 
Improved Approximate Rips Filtrations with Shifted Integer Lattices ENDTITLES Rips complexes are important structures for analyzing topological features of metric spaces. Unfortunately, generating these complexes constitutes an expensive task because of a combinatorial explosion in the complex size. For $n$ points in $\mathbb{R}^d$, we present a scheme to construct a $3\sqrt{2}$-approximation of the multi-scale filtration of the $L_\infty$-Rips complex, which extends to a $O(d^{0.25})$-approximation of the Rips filtration for the Euclidean case. The $k$-skeleton of the resulting approximation has a total size of $n2^{O(d\log k)}$. The scheme is based on the integer lattice and on the barycentric subdivision of the $d$-cube. ENDABSTRACTS 
Improved Approximate Rips Filtrations with Shifted Integer Lattices ENDTITLES Rips complexes are important structures for analyzing topological features of metric spaces. Unfortunately, generating these complexes constitutes an expensive task because of a combinatorial explosion in the complex size. For $n$ points in $\mathbb{R}^d$, we present a scheme to construct a $3\sqrt{2}$-approximation of the multi-scale filtration of the $L_\infty$-Rips complex, which extends to a $O(d^{0.25})$-approximation of the Rips filtration for the Euclidean case. The $k$-skeleton of the resulting approximation has a total size of $n2^{O(d\log k)}$. The scheme is based on the integer lattice and on the barycentric subdivision of the $d$-cube. ENDABSTRACTS 
Mass Transportation on sub-Riemannian structures of rank two in dimension four ENDTITLES This paper is concerned with the study of the Monge optimal transport problem in sub-Riemannian manifolds where the cost is given by the square of the sub-Riemannian distance. Our aim is to extend previous results on existence and uniqueness of optimal transport maps to cases of sub-Riemannian structures which admit many singular minimizing geodesics. We treat here the case of sub-Riemannian structures of rank two in dimension four. ENDABSTRACTS 
Mass Transportation on sub-Riemannian structures of rank two in dimension four ENDTITLES This paper is concerned with the study of the Monge optimal transport problem in sub-Riemannian manifolds where the cost is given by the square of the sub-Riemannian distance. Our aim is to extend previous results on existence and uniqueness of optimal transport maps to cases of sub-Riemannian structures which admit many singular minimizing geodesics. We treat here the case of sub-Riemannian structures of rank two in dimension four. ENDABSTRACTS 
Solidification of porous interfaces and disconnection ENDTITLES In this article we obtain uniform estimates on the absorption of Brownian motion by porous interfaces surrounding a compact set. An important ingredient is the construction of certain resonance sets, which are hard to avoid for Brownian motion starting in the compact set. As an application of our results, we substantially strengthen the results of arXiv:1412.3960, and obtain when $d \ge 3$, large deviation upper bounds on the probability that simple random walk in $Z^d$, or random interlacements in $Z^d$, when their vacant set is in a strong percolative regime, disconnect the discrete blow-up of a regular compact set from the boundary of the discrete blow-up of a box containing the compact set in its interior. Importantly, we make no convexity assumption on the compact set. It is plausible, although open at the moment, that the upper bounds that we derive in this work match in principal order the lower bounds of Xinyi Li and the second author (see arXiv:1310.2177) in the case of random interlacements, and of Xinyi Li (see arXiv:1412.3959) for the simple random walk. ENDABSTRACTS 
Intervals between numbers that are sums of two squares ENDTITLES In this paper, we improve the moment estimates for the gaps between numbers that can be represented as a sum of two squares of integers. We consider certain sum of Bessel functions and prove the upper bound for its weighted mean value. This bound provides estimates for the $\gamma$-th moments of gaps for all $\gamma\leq 2$. ENDABSTRACTS 
Girsanov Theorem for Multifractional Brownian Processes ENDTITLES In this article we will present a new perspective on the variable order fractional calculus, which allows for differentiation and integration to a variable order, i.e. one differentiates (or integrates) a function along the path of a regularity function. The concept of multifractional calculus has been a scarcely studied topic within the field of functional analysis in the last 20 years. We develop a multifractional derivative operator which acts as the inverse of the multifractional integral operator. This is done by solving the Abel integral equation generalized to a multifractional order. With this new multifractional derivative operator, we are able to analyze a variety of new problems, both in the field of stochastic analysis and in fractional and functional analysis, ranging from regularization properties of noise to solutions to multifractional differential equations. In this paper, we will focus on application of the derivative operator to the construction of strong solutions to stochastic differential equations where the drift coefficient is merely of linear growth, and the driving noise is given by a non-stationary multifractional Brownian motion with a Hurst parameter as a function of time. The Hurst functions we study will take values in a bounded subset of (0,1/2). The application of multifractional calculus to SDE's is based on a generalization of the works of D. Nualart and Y. Ouknine from 2002. ENDABSTRACTS 
Excitonic Bell States with Entangled Angular Momenta ENDTITLES A class of centrosymmetric molecules support excitons with a well-defined quasi-angular momentum. Cofacial arrangements of these molecules can be engineered so that quantum cutting produces a pair of excitons on sandwiching acceptors with angular momenta that are maximally entangled. These Bell state constituents can subsequently travel in opposite directions down molecular chains as ballistic wave packets. This is a direct excitonic analog to the entangled polarization states produced by the spontaneous parametric downconversion of light. As in optical settings, the ability to produce Bell states should enable experiments and technologies based on non-local excitonic quantum correlation. The idea is elucidated with a combination of quantum electrodynamics theory and numerical simulations. ENDABSTRACTS 
Efficiency of magnetic hyperthermia in the presence of rotating and static fields ENDTITLES In cancer therapy, the local heat generation by ferromagnetic nanoparticles, i.e., magnetic hyperthermia requires the enhancement of loss energies. A possible way to improve its efficiency is to chose a proper type of applied field. Recently, it was argued that the heat generation increases significantly if the direction of the rotating external field changes periodically. It requires a particular orientation, namely, nanoparticles with uniaxial anisotropy where the anisotropy is perpendicular to the plane of the rotation. However, there is the need for a stabilising static field in experimental realisation which has not yet been investigated. The goal of this work is to study the role of this static magnetic field in the heat generation by this new method in the framework of the deterministic Landau-Lifshitz-Gilbert equation. ENDABSTRACTS 
Magneto-resistance oscillations induced by high-intensity terahertz radiation ENDTITLES We report on observation of pronounced terahertz radiation-induced magneto-resistivity oscillations in AlGaAs/GaAs two-dimensional electron systems, the THz analog of the microwave induced resistivity oscillations (MIRO). Applying high power radiation of a pulsed molecular laser we demonstrate that MIRO, so far observed at low power only, are not destroyed even at very high intensities. Experiments with radiation intensity ranging over five orders of magnitude from $0.1$ W/cm$^2$ to $10^4$ W/cm$^2$ reveal high-power saturation of the MIRO amplitude, which is well described by an empirical fit function $I/(1 + I/I_s)^\beta$ with $\beta \sim 1$. The saturation intensity Is is of the order of tens of W/cm$^2$ and increases by six times by increasing the radiation frequency from $0.6$ to $1.1$ THz. The results are discussed in terms of microscopic mechanisms of MIRO and compared to nonlinear effects observed earlier at significantly lower excitation frequencies. ENDABSTRACTS 
Automatic Quality Estimation for ASR System Combination ENDTITLES Recognizer Output Voting Error Reduction (ROVER) has been widely used for system combination in automatic speech recognition (ASR). In order to select the most appropriate words to insert at each position in the output transcriptions, some ROVER extensions rely on critical information such as confidence scores and other ASR decoder features. This information, which is not always available, highly depends on the decoding process and sometimes tends to over estimate the real quality of the recognized words. In this paper we propose a novel variant of ROVER that takes advantage of ASR quality estimation (QE) for ranking the transcriptions at "segment level" instead of: i) relying on confidence scores, or ii) feeding ROVER with randomly ordered hypotheses. We first introduce an effective set of features to compensate for the absence of ASR decoder information. Then, we apply QE techniques to perform accurate hypothesis ranking at segment-level before starting the fusion process. The evaluation is carried out on two different tasks, in which we respectively combine hypotheses coming from independent ASR systems and multi-microphone recordings. In both tasks, it is assumed that the ASR decoder information is not available. The proposed approach significantly outperforms standard ROVER and it is competitive with two strong oracles that e xploit prior knowledge about the real quality of the hypotheses to be combined. Compared to standard ROVER, the abs olute WER improvements in the two evaluation scenarios range from 0.5% to 7.3%. ENDABSTRACTS 
Bounded $H_\infty$-calculus for cone differential operators ENDTITLES We prove that parameter-elliptic extensions of cone differential operators have a bounded $H_\infty$-calculus. Applications concern the Laplacian and the porous medium equation on manifolds with warped conical singularities. ENDABSTRACTS 
Lock-in transition of charge density waves in quasi-one-dimensional conductors: reinterpretation of McMillan's theory ENDTITLES We investigated the lock-in transition of charge density waves (CDWs) in quasi-one-dimensional conductors, based on McMillan's free energy. The higher order of umklapp terms plays an essential role in this study. His theory was extended by Nakanishi and Shiba in order to treat multiple CDW vectors. Although their theories were aimed to understand CDWs in quasi-two-dimensional conductors, we applied them to the quasi-one-dimensional conductors, including K$_{0.3}$MoO$_3$, NbSe$_3$, and $m$-TaS$_3$, and confirmed validity for these cases. Then we discussed our previous experimental result of $o$-TaS$_3$, which revealed the coexistence of commensurate and incommensurate states. We found that the coexistence of multiple CDW vectors is essential for the lock-in transition to occur in $o$-TaS$_3$. The even- and odd-order terms in the free energy play roles for amplitude development and phase modulation, respectively. Moreover, consideration of the condition of being commensurate CDWs allowed us to relate it with that of the weak localization in random media. ENDABSTRACTS 
Gated-Attention Architectures for Task-Oriented Language Grounding ENDTITLES To perform tasks specified by natural language instructions, autonomous agents need to extract semantically meaningful representations of language and map it to visual elements and actions in the environment. This problem is called task-oriented language grounding. We propose an end-to-end trainable neural architecture for task-oriented language grounding in 3D environments which assumes no prior linguistic or perceptual knowledge and requires only raw pixels from the environment and the natural language instruction as input. The proposed model combines the image and text representations using a Gated-Attention mechanism and learns a policy to execute the natural language instruction using standard reinforcement and imitation learning methods. We show the effectiveness of the proposed model on unseen instructions as well as unseen maps, both quantitatively and qualitatively. We also introduce a novel environment based on a 3D game engine to simulate the challenges of task-oriented language grounding over a rich set of instructions and environment states. ENDABSTRACTS 
Synthesis of Near-regular Natural Textures ENDTITLES Texture synthesis is widely used in the field of computer graphics, vision, and image processing. In the present paper, a texture synthesis algorithm is proposed for near-regular natural textures with the help of a representative periodic pattern extracted from the input textures using distance matching function. Local texture statistics is then analyzed against global texture statistics for non-overlapping windows of size same as periodic pattern size and a representative periodic pattern is extracted from the image and used for texture synthesis, while preserving the global regularity and visual appearance. Validation of the algorithm based on experiments with synthetic textures whose periodic pattern sizes are known and containing camouflages / defects proves the strength of the algorithm for texture synthesis and its application in detection of camouflages / defects in textures. ENDABSTRACTS 
A Community's Perspective on the Status and Future of Peer Review in Software Engineering ENDTITLES Context: Pre-publication peer review of scientific articles is considered a key element of the research process in software engineering, yet it is often perceived as not to work fully well. Objective: We aim at understanding the perceptions of and attitudes towards peer review of authors and reviewers at one of software engineering's most prestigious venues, the International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE). Method: We invited 932 ICSE 2014/15/16 authors and reviewers to participate in a survey with 10 closed and 9 open questions. Results: We present a multitude of results, such as: Respondents perceive only one third of all reviews to be good, yet one third as useless or misleading; they propose double-blind or zero-blind reviewing regimes for improvement; they would like to see showable proofs of (good) reviewing work be introduced; attitude change trends are weak. Conclusion: The perception of the current state of software engineering peer review is fairly negative. Also, we found hardly any trend that suggests reviewing will improve by itself over time; the community will have to make explicit efforts. Fortunately, our (mostly senior) respondents appear more open for trying different peer reviewing regimes than we had expected. ENDABSTRACTS 
From here to infinity - sparse finite versus Dirichlet process mixtures in model-based clustering ENDTITLES Interest in the present paper lies in the use of mixture models to cluster data points into groups of similar objects, so-called clusters. A useful concept, introduced for Gaussian mixtures by Malsiner Walli et al (2016) are sparse finite mixtures, where the prior distribution on the weight distribution of a mixture with $K$ components is chosen in such a way that the apriori the number of clusters in the data is random and allowed to be smaller than $K$. The number of cluster is then inferred aposteriori from the data. The present paper makes the following contributions in the context of sparse finite mixture modelling. First, it is illustrated that the concept of sparse finite mixture is very generic and easily extended to cluster various ypes of non-Gaussian data, in particular discrete data and continuous multivariate data arising from non-Gaussian clusters. Second, sparse finite mixtures are compared to Dirichlet process mixture with respect to their ability to identify the number of clusters. For both model classes, a random hyperprior is considered for the parameters determining the weight distribution. By suitable matching of these priors, it is shown that the choice of this hyperprior is far more influential on the cluster solution than whether a sparse finite or a Dirichlet process mixture is taken into consideration. ENDABSTRACTS 
Effect of Fe-substitution on the structure and magnetism of single crystals Mn2-xFexBO4 ENDTITLES Single crystalline Mn2-xFexBO4 with x = 0.3, 0.5, 0.7 grown by the flux method have been studied by means of X-ray diffraction and X-ray absorption spectroscopy at both Mn and Fe K edges. The compounds were found to crystallize in an orthorhombic warwickite structure (sp. gr. Pnam). The magnetization data have revealed a spin-glass transition at TSG= 11, 14 and 18 K for x= 0.3, 0.5 and 0.7, respectively. ENDABSTRACTS 
Revisiting Open eXchange Points with Software Defined Networking ENDTITLES The introduction of SDN in Service Providers' networks like GEANT is a challenging task. Prototypes of new generation services have to exhibit "carrier grade" characteristics, meet the high level expectations and specialized needs of GEANT customers. In this demonstration, we present the SDN based prototype of GEANT Open service, used by GEANT customers and approved commercial partners to interconnect using Layer 2 circuits. Currently, this service is delivered through a set of Open eXchange Points leveraging on legacy solutions. The SDN based prototype has been realized on top of ONOS and leverages on hardware switches for the data plane. During the demo, which runs inside the GEANT Testbed Service, we show how operators can deploy services and manage the SDN based infrastructure. ENDABSTRACTS 
Continuum Limit of Posteriors in Graph Bayesian Inverse Problems ENDTITLES We consider the problem of recovering a function input of a differential equation formulated on an unknown domain $M$. We assume to have access to a discrete domain $M_n=\{x_1, \dots, x_n\} \subset M$, and to noisy measurements of the output solution at $p\le n$ of those points. We introduce a graph-based Bayesian inverse problem, and show that the graph-posterior measures over functions in $M_n$ converge, in the large $n$ limit, to a posterior over functions in $M$ that solves a Bayesian inverse problem with known domain. The proofs rely on the variational formulation of the Bayesian update, and on a new topology for the study of convergence of measures over functions on point clouds to a measure over functions on the continuum. Our framework, techniques, and results may serve to lay the foundations of robust uncertainty quantification of graph-based tasks in machine learning. The ideas are presented in the concrete setting of recovering the initial condition of the heat equation on an unknown manifold. ENDABSTRACTS 
High-Performance Out-of-core Block Randomized Singular Value Decomposition on GPU ENDTITLES Fast computation of singular value decomposition (SVD) is of great interest in various machine learning tasks. Recently, SVD methods based on randomized linear algebra have shown significant speedup in this regime. This paper attempts to further accelerate the computation by harnessing a modern computing architecture, namely graphics processing unit (GPU), with the goal of processing large-scale data that may not fit in the GPU memory. It leads to a new block randomized algorithm that fully utilizes the power of GPUs and efficiently processes large-scale data in an out-of- core fashion. Our experiment shows that the proposed block randomized SVD (BRSVD) method outperforms existing randomized SVD methods in terms of speed with retaining the same accuracy. We also show its application to convex robust principal component analysis, which shows significant speedup in computer vision applications. ENDABSTRACTS 
On the standard L-function attached to Siegel-Jacobi modular forms of higher index ENDTITLES In this work we study the analytic properties of the standard L-function attached to Siegel-Jacobi modular forms of higher index, generalizing previous results of Arakawa and Murase. Furthermore, we obtain algebraicity results on special L-values in the spirit of Deligne's Period Conjectures. ENDABSTRACTS 
When does every definable nonempty set have a definable element? ENDTITLES The assertion that every definable set has a definable element is equivalent over ZF to the principle $V=\text{HOD}$, and indeed, we prove, so is the assertion merely that every $\Pi_2$-definable set has an ordinal-definable element. Meanwhile, every model of ZFC has a forcing extension satisfying $V\neq\text{HOD}$ in which every $\Sigma_2$-definable set has an ordinal-definable element. Similar results hold for $\text{HOD}(\mathbb{R})$ and $\text{HOD}(\text{Ord}^\omega)$ and other natural instances of $\text{HOD}(X)$. ENDABSTRACTS 
Volume rigidity at ideal points of the character variety of hyperbolic 3-manifolds ENDTITLES Given the fundamental group $\Gamma$ of a finite-volume complete hyperbolic $3$-manifold $M$, it is possible to associate to any representation $\rho:\Gamma \rightarrow \text{Isom}(\mathbb{H}^3)$ a numerical invariant called volume. This invariant is bounded by the hyperbolic volume of $M$ and satisfies a rigidity condition: if the volume of $\rho$ is maximal, then $\rho$ must be conjugated to the holonomy of the hyperbolic structure of $M$. This paper generalizes this rigidity result by showing that if a sequence of representations of $\Gamma$ into $\text{Isom}(\mathbb{H}^3)$ satisfies $\lim_{n \to \infty} \text{Vol}(\rho_n) = \text{Vol}(M)$, then there must exist a sequence of elements $g_n \in \text{Isom}(\mathbb{H}^3)$ such that the representations $g_n \circ \rho_n \circ g_n^{-1}$ converge to the holonomy of $M$. In particular if the sequence $\rho_n$ converges to an ideal point of the character variety, then the sequence of volumes must stay away from the maximum. We conclude by generalizing the result to the case of $k$-manifolds and representations in $\text{Isom}(\mathbb H^m)$, where $m\geq k$. ENDABSTRACTS 
Deep Supervision for Pancreatic Cyst Segmentation in Abdominal CT Scans ENDTITLES Automatic segmentation of an organ and its cystic region is a prerequisite of computer-aided diagnosis. In this paper, we focus on pancreatic cyst segmentation in abdominal CT scan. This task is important and very useful in clinical practice yet challenging due to the low contrast in boundary, the variability in location, shape and the different stages of the pancreatic cancer. Inspired by the high relevance between the location of a pancreas and its cystic region, we introduce extra deep supervision into the segmentation network, so that cyst segmentation can be improved with the help of relatively easier pancreas segmentation. Under a reasonable transformation function, our approach can be factorized into two stages, and each stage can be efficiently optimized via gradient back-propagation throughout the deep networks. We collect a new dataset with 131 pathological samples, which, to the best of our knowledge, is the largest set for pancreatic cyst segmentation. Without human assistance, our approach reports a 63.44% average accuracy, measured by the Dice-S{\o}rensen coefficient (DSC), which is higher than the number (60.46%) without deep supervision. ENDABSTRACTS 
Nov\'ak-Carmichael numbers and shifted primes without large prime factors ENDTITLES We prove some new lower bounds for the counting function $\mathcal N_{\mathcal C}(x)$ of the set of Nov\'ak-Carmichael numbers. Our estimates depend on the bounds for the number of shifted primes without large prime factors. In particular, we prove that $\mathcal N_{\mathcal C}(x) \gg x^{0.7039-o(1)}$ unconditionally and that $\mathcal N_{\mathcal C}(x) \gg xe^{-(7+o(1))(\log x)\frac{\log\log\log x}{\log\log x}}$, under some reasonable hypothesis. ENDABSTRACTS 
A Web-Deployed Computer Vision Pipeline for Automated Determination of Cardiac Structure and Function and Detection of Disease by Two-Dimensional Echocardiography ENDTITLES Automated cardiac image interpretation has the potential to transform clinical practice in multiple ways including enabling low-cost serial assessment of cardiac function in the primary care and rural setting. We hypothesized that advances in computer vision could enable building a fully automated, scalable analysis pipeline for echocardiogram (echo) interpretation. Our approach entailed: 1) preprocessing; 2) convolutional neural networks (CNN) for view identification, image segmentation, and phasing of the cardiac cycle; 3) quantification of chamber volumes and left ventricular mass; 4) particle tracking to compute longitudinal strain; and 5) targeted disease detection. CNNs accurately identified views (e.g. 99% for apical 4-chamber) and segmented individual cardiac chambers. Cardiac structure measurements agreed with study report values (e.g. mean absolute deviations (MAD) of 7.7 mL/kg/m2 for left ventricular diastolic volume index, 2918 studies). We computed automated ejection fraction and longitudinal strain measurements (within 2 cohorts), which agreed with commercial software-derived values [for ejection fraction, MAD=5.3%, N=3101 studies; for strain, MAD=1.5% (n=175) and 1.6% (n=110)], and demonstrated applicability to serial monitoring of breast cancer patients for trastuzumab cardiotoxicity. Overall, we found that, compared to manual measurements, automated measurements had superior performance across seven internal consistency metrics with an average increase in the Spearman correlation coefficient of 0.05 (p=0.02). Finally, we developed disease detection algorithms for hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and cardiac amyloidosis, with C-statistics of 0.90 and 0.84, respectively. Our pipeline lays the groundwork for using automated interpretation to support point-of-care handheld cardiac ultrasound and large-scale analysis of the millions of echos archived within healthcare systems. ENDABSTRACTS 
Regularization of Discontinuous Foliations: Blowing up and Sliding Conditions via Fenichel Theory ENDTITLES We study the regularization of an oriented 1-foliation $\mathcal{F}$ on $M \setminus \Sigma$ where $M$ is a smooth manifold and $\Sigma \subset M$ is a closed subset, which can be interpreted as the discontinuity locus of $\mathcal{F}$. In the spirit of Filippov's work, we define a sliding and sewing dynamics on the discontinuity locus $\Sigma$ as some sort of limit of the dynamics of a nearby smooth 1-foliation and obtain conditions to identify whether a point belongs to the sliding or sewing regions. ENDABSTRACTS 
Algebraic structures of $F$-manifolds via pre-Lie algebras ENDTITLES We relate the operad FMan controlling the algebraic structure on the tangent sheaf of an $F$-manifold (weak Frobenius manifold) defined by Hertling and Manin to the operad PreLie of pre-Lie algebras: for the filtration of PreLie by powers of the ideal generated by the Lie bracket, the associated graded object is FMan. ENDABSTRACTS 
Symmetry between repulsive and attractive interactions in driven-dissipative Bose-Hubbard systems ENDTITLES The driven-dissipative Bose-Hubbard model can be experimentally realized with either negative or positive onsite detunings, inter-site hopping energies, and onsite interaction energies. Here we use one-dimensional matrix product density operators to perform a fully quantum investigation of the dependence of the non-equilibrium steady states of this model on the signs of these parameters. Due to a symmetry in the Lindblad master equation, we find that simultaneously changing the sign of the interaction energies, hopping energies, and chemical potentials leaves the local boson number distribution and inter-site number correlations invariant, and the steady-state complex conjugated. This shows that all driven-dissipative phenomena of interacting bosons described by the Lindblad master equation, such as "fermionization" and "superbunching", can equivalently occur with attractive or repulsive interactions. ENDABSTRACTS 
Localization and mobility edges in the off-diagonal quasiperiodic model with slowly varying potentials ENDTITLES We study a one-dimensional system that includes both a commensurate off-diagonal modulation of the hopping amplitude and an incommensurate, slowly varying diagonal on-site modulation. By using asymptotic heuristic arguments, we identify four closed form expressions for the mobility edges. We further study numerically the inverse participation ratio, the density of states and the Lyapunov exponent. The numerical results are in exact agreement with our theoretical predictions. Besides a metal-insulator transition driven by the strength of the slowly varying potential, another four insulator-metal transitions are found in this model as the energy is increased in magnitude from the band center ($E =0$) to the mobility edges ($\pm E_{c2}, \pm E_{c1}$). ENDABSTRACTS 
An Elementary Computation of the $F$-Pure Threshold of an Elliptic Curve ENDTITLES We compute the $F$-pure threshold of a degree three homogeneous polynomial in three variables with an isolated singularity. The computation uses elementary methods to prove a known result of Bhatt and Singh. ENDABSTRACTS 
The Principal Fiber Bundle Structure of the Gimbal-Spacecraft System ENDTITLES The gimbal-spacecraft system, that consists of a variable speed control moment gyro (VSCMG) mounted inside a spacecraft, has been employed as an actuator for the attitude control of a spacecraft and has been much studied in the aerospace control community. Employing a Newtonian approach, the equations of motion are derived, and further study focusses on singularity issues and control law synthesis. While the geometric mechanics community has studied many mechanical systems of engineering interest, including spinning rotors (or momentum wheels) that are used as actuators, there has not been a particular effort to model and control the gimbal-spacecraft system in a geometric framework. This article serves two purposes: it presents the gimbal-spacecraft system in a geometric mechanics framework, and in particular, highlights the connection form, that could form the basis for future control design, and secondly, the exposition is of a tutorial nature whereby the willing reader, with minimal prerequisites, is introduced to the tools of differential geometry in this context. ENDABSTRACTS 
Strong normalization of lambda-Sym-Prop- and lambda-bar-mu-mu-tilde-star- calculi ENDTITLES In this paper we give an arithmetical proof of the strong normalization of lambda-Sym-Prop of Berardi and Barbanera [1], which can be considered as a formulae-as-types translation of classical propositional logic in natural deduction style. Then we give a translation between the lambda-Sym-Prop-calculus and the lambda-bar-mu-mu-tilde-star-calculus, which is the implicational part of the lambda-bar-mu-mu-tilde-calculus invented by Curien and Herbelin [3] extended with negation. In this paper we adapt the method of David and Nour [4] for proving strong normalization. The novelty in our proof is the notion of zoom-in sequences of redexes, which leads us directly to the proof of the main theorem. ENDABSTRACTS 
Observation of anomalous spin-torque generated by a ferromagnet ENDTITLES In this work we report observation of in-plane current induced out-of-plane magnetic field driven torque in spin valve structure. Since ferromagnet has high spin orbit coupling it is expected to be the source of spin-orbit-torque as it possesses anomalous-Hall-effect (AHE: equivalent to spin Hall effect in heavy metal). So we have carried out spin-torque ferromagnetic resonance (ST-FMR) experiment in a spin valve (consists of a fixed magnet and a free magnet which are separated by Cu spacer), passing in-plane radio frequency current and measuring DC voltage. Our experimental results eventually indicate that spin torque exerted on the free magnet is not caused due to the spin current injection by the fixed magnet owing to its AHE, but it is originated from in-plane current driven out-of plane effective magnetic field. This is new class of spin torque which is completely different from Slonczewski-spin transfer torque and Rashba like field like torque. The effective out-of plane magnetic field depends on the direction of current (in-plane) and magnetization (in-plane) of the pinned layer. One possible mechanism behind this unconventional torque could be intefacial spin-scattering which is also origin of current in-plane GMR effect. Most importantly this effective out-of plane torque can be useful to switch out-of plane magnetic bits in spintronic memory application. ENDABSTRACTS 
Near-Perfect Conversion of a Propagating Wave into a Surface Wave Using Metasurfaces ENDTITLES In this paper, theoretical and numerical studies of perfect/nearly-perfect conversion of a plane wave into a surface wave are presented. The problem of determining the electromagnetic properties of an inhomogeneous lossless boundary which would fully transform an incident plane wave into a surface wave propagating along the boundary is considered. An approximate field solution which produces a slowly growing surface wave and satisfies the energy conservation law is discussed and numerically demonstrated. The results of the study are of great importance for the future development of such devices as perfect leaky-wave antennas and can potentially lead to many novel applications. ENDABSTRACTS 
Noiseless signal shaping and cluster state generation with quantum memory cell ENDTITLES In this article, we employ multimode radiation of a synchronously pumped optical parametric oscillator (SPOPO) to build a cluster state through a conversion on the base of quantum memory cell. We demonstrate that by choosing an appropriate driving field we can ensure the effective writing of the only one supermode from the entire set of the SPOPO squeezed supermodes. Further, by changing the driving field profile at the readout, we convert the time profile of the retrieved signal while maintaining its quantum state. We demonstrate the possibilities of using the presented scheme by the example of creating a four-mode linear cluster state of light. ENDABSTRACTS 
Some remarks on boundary operators of Bessel extensions ENDTITLES In this paper we study some boundary operators of a class of Bessel-type Littlewood-Paley extensions whose prototype is \[\Delta_x u(x,y) +\frac{1-2s}{y} \frac{\partial u}{\partial y}(x,y)+\frac{\partial^2 u}{\partial y^2}(x,y)=0 \text{ for }x\in\mathbb{R}^d, y&gt;0, \\ u(x,0)=f(x) \text{ for }x\in\mathbb{R}^d. \] In particular, we show that with a logarithmic scaling one can capture the failure of analyticity of these extensions in the limiting cases $s=k \in \mathbb{N}$. ENDABSTRACTS 
Generalised fractional diffusion equations for subdiffusion on arbitrarily growing domains ENDTITLES Many physical phenomena occur on domains that grow in time. When the timescales of the phenomena and domain growth are comparable, models must include the dynamics of the domain. A widespread intrinsically slow transport process is subdiffusion. Many models of subdiffusion include a history dependence. This greatly confounds efforts to incorporate domain growth. Here we derive the fractional partial differential equations that govern subdiffusion on a growing domain, based on a Continuous Time Random Walk. This requires the introduction of a new, comoving, fractional derivative. ENDABSTRACTS 
Content-Centric Networking - Architectural Overview and Protocol Description ENDTITLES This document describes the core concepts of the CCNx architecture and presents a minimum network protocol based on two messages: Interests and Content Objects. It specifies the set of mandatory and optional fields within those messages and describes their behavior and interpretation. This architecture and protocol specification is independent of a specific wire encoding. ENDABSTRACTS 
A bijection of plane increasing trees with relaxed binary trees of right height at most one ENDTITLES Plane increasing trees are rooted labeled trees embedded into the plane such that the sequence of labels is increasing on any branch starting at the root. Relaxed binary trees are a subclass of unlabeled directed acyclic graphs. We construct a bijection between these two combinatorial objects and study the therefrom arising connections of certain parameters. Furthermore, we show central limit theorems for two statistics on leaves. We end the study by considering more than 20 subclasses and their bijective counterparts. Many of these subclasses are enumerated by known counting sequences, and thus enrich their combinatorial interpretation. ENDABSTRACTS 
A Wavenet for Speech Denoising ENDTITLES Currently, most speech processing techniques use magnitude spectrograms as front-end and are therefore by default discarding part of the signal: the phase. In order to overcome this limitation, we propose an end-to-end learning method for speech denoising based on Wavenet. The proposed model adaptation retains Wavenet's powerful acoustic modeling capabilities, while significantly reducing its time-complexity by eliminating its autoregressive nature. Specifically, the model makes use of non-causal, dilated convolutions and predicts target fields instead of a single target sample. The discriminative adaptation of the model we propose, learns in a supervised fashion via minimizing a regression loss. These modifications make the model highly parallelizable during both training and inference. Both computational and perceptual evaluations indicate that the proposed method is preferred to Wiener filtering, a common method based on processing the magnitude spectrogram. ENDABSTRACTS 
Nuclei of dwarf spheroidal galaxies KKs3 and ESO269-66 and their counterparts in our Galaxy ENDTITLES We present the analysis of medium-resolution spectra obtained at the Southern African Large Telescope (SALT) for nuclear globular clusters (GCs) in two dwarf spheroidal galaxies (dSphs). The galaxies have similar star formation histories, but they are situated in completely different environments. ESO269-66 is a close neighbour of the giant S0 NGC5128. KKs3 is one of the few truly isolated dSphs within 10 Mpc. We estimate the helium abundance $Y=0.3$, $\rm age=12.6\pm1$ Gyr, $[Fe/H]=-1.5,-1.55\pm0.2$ dex, and abundances of C, N, Mg, Ca, Ti, and Cr for the nuclei of ESO269-66 and KKs3. Our surface photometry results using HST images yield the half-light radius of the cluster in KKs3, $\rm r_h=4.8\pm0.2$ pc. We demonstrate the similarities of medium-resolution spectra, ages, chemical compositions, and structure for GCs in ESO269-66 and KKs3 and for several massive Galactic GCs with $[Fe/H]\sim-1.6$ dex. All Galactic GCs posses Extended Blue Horizontal Branches and multiple stellar populations. Five of the selected Galactic objects are iron-complex GCs. Our results indicate that the sample GCs observed now in different environments had similar conditions of their formation $\sim$1 Gyr after the Big Bang. ENDABSTRACTS 
Feeding the human brain model ENDTITLES The goal of the Human Brain Project is to develop during the next decade an infrastructure necessary for running a simulation of the entire human brain constrained by current experimental data. One of the key issues is therefore to integrate and make accessible the experimental data necessary to constrain and fully specify this model. The required data covers many different spatial scales, ranging from the molecular scale to the whole brain and these data are obtained using a variety of techniques whose measurements may not be directly comparable. Furthermore, these data are incomplete, and will remain so at least for the coming decade. Here we review new neuroinformatics techniques that need to be developed and applied to address these issues. ENDABSTRACTS 
Real-space study of the optical absorption in alternative phases of silicon ENDTITLES We introduce a real-space approach to understand the relationship between optical absorption and crystal structure. We apply this approach to alternative phases of silicon, with a focus on the Si$_{20}$ crystal phase as a case study. We find that about 83% of the changes in the calculated low-energy absorption in Si$_{20}$ as compared to Si in the diamond structure can be attributed to reducing the differences between the on-site energies of the bonding and anti-bonding orbitals as well as increasing the hopping integrals for specific Si-Si bonds. ENDABSTRACTS 
Tame and wild theorem for the category of filtered by standard modules for a quasi-hereditary algebra ENDTITLES We introduce the notion of interlaced weak ditalgebras and apply reduction procedures to their module categories to prove the tame-wild dichotomy for the category ${\cal F}(\Delta)$ of filtered by standard modules for a quasi-hereditary algebra. Moreover, in the tame case, we show that given a fixed dimension $d$, for every $d$-dimensional indecomposable module $M \in {\cal F}(\Delta)$, with the only possible exception of those lying in a finite number of isomorphism classes, the module $M$ coincides with its Auslander-Reiten translate in ${\cal F}(\Delta)$. Our results are based on a theorem by Koenig, K\"ulshammer, and Ovsienko relating ${\cal F}(\Delta)$ with the module category of some special type of ditalgebra. ENDABSTRACTS 
Constrained Ordered Equilibrium Problems ENDTITLES In this paper, we consider some equilibrium problems (or saddle point problems), in which the domains of the considered mappings are limited at some regions. These restricted regions are defined by some mappings which are called the constrained mappings in the given problems. For this reason, we introduce the concepts of constrained ordered equilibrium problems, that are useful extensions of ordered equilibrium problems and ordinary equilibrium problems. Then, by using some fixed point theorems on posets, we prove several theorems for existence of solutions to some constrained ordered equilibrium problems. In particular, we investigate the solvability of some constrained ordered equilibrium problems in some partially ordered Banach spaces. ENDABSTRACTS 
Graph products of completely positive maps ENDTITLES We define the graph product of unital completely positive maps on a universal graph product of unital C*-algebras and show that it is unital completely positive itself. To accomplish this, we introduce the notion of the non-commutative length of a word, and we obtain a Stinespring construction for concatenation. This result yields the following consequences. The graph product of positive-definite functions is positive-definite. A graph product version of von Neumann's inequality holds. Graph independent contractions on a Hilbert space simultaneously dilate to graph independent unitaries. ENDABSTRACTS 
Extracting random numbers from quantum tunnelling through a single diode ENDTITLES Random number generation is crucial in many aspects of everyday life, as online security and privacy depend ultimately on the quality of random numbers. Many current implementations are based on pseudo-random number generators, but information security requires true random numbers for sensitive applications like key generation in banking, defence or even social media. True random number generators are systems whose outputs cannot be determined, even if their internal structure and response history are known. Sources of quantum noise are thus ideal for this application due to their intrinsic uncertainty. In this work, we propose using resonant tunnelling diodes as practical true random number generators based on a quantum mechanical effect. The output of the proposed devices can be directly used as a random stream of bits or can be further distilled using randomness extraction algorithms, depending on the application. ENDABSTRACTS 
Polluted Bootstrap Percolation in Three Dimensions ENDTITLES In the polluted bootstrap percolation model, vertices of the cubic lattice $\mathbb{Z}^3$ are independently declared initially occupied with probability $p$ or closed with probability $q$. Under the standard (respectively, modified) bootstrap rule, a vertex becomes occupied at a subsequent step if it is not closed and it has at least $3$ occupied neighbors (respectively, an occupied neighbor in each coordinate). We study the final density of occupied vertices as $p,q\to 0$. We show that this density converges to $1$ if $q \ll p^3(\log p^{-1})^{-3}$ for both standard and modified rules. Our principal result is a complementary bound with a matching power for the modified model: there exists $C$ such that the final density converges to $0$ if $q &gt; Cp^3$. For the standard model, we establish convergence to $0$ under the stronger condition $q&gt;Cp^2$. ENDABSTRACTS 
Antimagic orientation of biregular bipartite graphs ENDTITLES An antimagic labeling of a directed graph $D$ with $n$ vertices and $m$ arcs is a bijection from the set of arcs of $D$ to the integers $\{1, \cdots, m\}$ such that all $n$ oriented vertex sums are pairwise distinct, where an oriented vertex sum is the sum of labels of all arcs entering that vertex minus the sum of labels of all arcs leaving it. An undirected graph $G$ is said to have an antimagic orientation if $G$ has an orientation which admits an antimagic labeling. Hefetz, M{\"{u}}tze, and Schwartz conjectured that every connected undirected graph admits an antimagic orientation. In this paper, we support this conjecture by proving that every biregular bipartite graph admits an antimagic orientation. ENDABSTRACTS 
Transfer results for Frobenius extensions ENDTITLES We study Frobenius extensions which are free-filtered by a totally ordered, finitely generated abelian group, and their free-graded counterparts. First we show that the Frobenius property passes up from a free-graded extension to a free-filtered extension, then also from a free-filtered extension to the extension of their Rees algebras. Our main theorem states that, under some natural hypotheses, a free-filtered extension of algebras is Frobenius if and only if the associated graded extension is Frobenius. In the final section we apply this theorem to provide new examples and non-examples of Frobenius extensions. ENDABSTRACTS 
Shadowable Points for flows ENDTITLES A shadowable point for a flow is a point where the shadowing lemma holds for pseudo-orbits passing through it. We prove that this concept satisfies the following properties: the set of shadowable points is invariant and a $G_{\delta}$ set. A flow has the pseudo-orbit tracing property if and only if every point is shadowable. The chain recurrent and nonwandering sets coincide when every chain recurrent point is shadowable. We study the relations between shadowable points of a homeomorphism and the shadowable points of its suspension flow. We characterize the set of forward shadowable points for transitive flows and chain transitive flows. We prove that the geometric Lorenz attractor does not have shadowable points. We show that in the presence of shadowable points chain transitive flows are transitive and that transitivity is a necessary condition for chain recurrent flows with shadowable points whenever the phase space is connected. Finally, as an application these results we give a concise proof of some well known theorems establishing that flows with POTP admitting some kind of recurrence are minimal. These results extends those presented in [10]. ENDABSTRACTS 
Human decisions in moral dilemmas are largely described by Utilitarianism: virtual car driving study provides guidelines for ADVs ENDTITLES Ethical thought experiments such as the trolley dilemma have been investigated extensively in the past, showing that humans act in a utilitarian way, trying to cause as little overall damage as possible. These trolley dilemmas have gained renewed attention over the past years; especially due to the necessity of implementing moral decisions in autonomous driving vehicles. We conducted a set of experiments in which participants experienced modified trolley dilemmas as the driver in a virtual reality environment. Participants had to make decisionsbetween two discrete options: driving on one of two lanes where different obstacles came into view. Obstacles included a variety of human-like avatars of different ages and group sizes. Furthermore, we tested the influence of a sidewalk as a potential safe harbor and a condition implicating a self-sacrifice. Results showed that subjects, in general, decided in a utilitarian manner, sparing the highest number of avatars possible with a limited influence of the other variables. Our findings support that human behavior is in line with the utilitarian approach to moral decision making. This may serve as a guideline for the implementation of moral decisions in ADVs. ENDABSTRACTS 
Ball in double hoop: demonstration model for numerical optimal control ENDTITLES Ball and hoop system is a well-known model for the education of linear control systems. In this paper, we have a look at this system from another perspective and show that it is also suitable for demonstration of more advanced control techniques. In contrast to the standard use, we describe the dynamics of the system at full length; in addition to the mode where the ball rolls on the (outer) hoop we also consider the mode where the ball drops out of the hoop and enters a free-fall mode. Furthermore, we add another (inner) hoop in the center upon which the ball can land from the free-fall mode. This constitutes another mode of the hybrid description of the system. We present two challenging tasks for this model and show how they can be solved by trajectory generation and stabilization. We also describe how such a model can be built and experimentally verify the validity of our approach solving the proposed tasks. ENDABSTRACTS 
A minimal model for a hydrodynamic fingering instability in microroller suspensions ENDTITLES We derive a minimal continuum model to investigate the hydrodynamic mechanism behind the fingering instability recently discovered in a suspension of microrollers near a floor [Driscoll et al. Nature Physics, 2016]. Our model, consisting of two continuous lines of rotlets, exhibits a linear instability driven only by hydrodynamics interactions, and reproduces the lengthscale selection observed in large scale particle simulations and in experiments. By adjusting only one parameter, the distance between the two lines, our dispersion relation exhibits quantitative agreement with the simulations and qualitative agreement with experimental measurements. Our linear stability analysis indicate that this instability is caused by the combination of the advective and transverse flows generated by the microrollers near a no-slip surface. Our simple model offers an interesting formalism to characterize other hydrodynamic instabilities that have not been yet well understood, such as size scale selection in suspensions of particles sedimenting adjacent to a wall, or the recently observed formations of traveling phonons in systems of confined driven particles. ENDABSTRACTS 
Rational coordination with no communication or conventions ENDTITLES We study pure coordination games where in every outcome, all players have identical payoffs, 'win' or 'lose'. We identify and discuss a range of 'purely rational principles' guiding the reasoning of rational players in such games and analyze which classes of coordination games can be solved by such players with no preplay communication or conventions. We observe that it is highly nontrivial to delineate a boundary between purely rational principles and other decision methods, such as conventions, for solving such coordination games. ENDABSTRACTS 
Living Labs - An Ethical Challenge for Researchers and Platform Providers ENDTITLES The infamous Facebook emotion contagion experiment is one of the most prominent and best-known online experiments based on the concept of what we here call "living labs". In these kinds of experiments, real-world applications such as social web platforms trigger experimental switches inside their system to present experimental changes to their users - most of the time without the users being aware of their role as virtual guinea pigs. In the Facebook example the researches changed the way users' personal timeline was compiled to test the influence on the users' moods and feelings. The reactions to these experiments showed the inherent ethical issues such living labs settings bring up, mainly the study's lack of informed consent procedures, as well as a more general critique of the flaws in the experimental design. In this chapter, we describe additional use cases: The so-called living labs that focus on experimentation with information systems such as search engines and wikis and especially on their real-world usage. The living labs paradigm allows researchers to conduct research in real-world environments or systems. In the field of information science and especially information retrieval - which is the scientific discipline that is concerned with the research of search engines, information systems, and search related algorithms and techniques - it is still common practice to perform in vitro or offline evaluations using static test collections. Living labs are widely unknown or unavailable to academic researchers in these fields. A main benefit of living labs is their potential to offer new ways and possibilities to experiment with information systems and especially their users, but on the other hand they introduce a whole set of ethical issues that we would like to address in this chapter. ENDABSTRACTS 
First-principles calculations and model analysis of plasmon excitations in graphene ENDTITLES Plasmon excitations in free-standing graphene and graphene/hexagonal boron nitride (hBN) heterostructure are studied using linear-response time-dependent density functional theory within the random phase approximation. Within a single theoretical framework, we examine both the plasmon dispersion behavior and lifetime (line width) of Dirac and $\pi$ plasmons on an equal footing. Particular attention is paid to the influence of the hBN substrate and the anisotropic effect. Furthermore, a model-based analysis indicates that the correct dispersion behavior of $\pi$ plasmons should be $\omega_\pi(q) = \sqrt{E_g^2 + \beta q}$ for small $q$'s, where $E_g$ is the band gap at the $M$ point in the Brillouin zone, and $\beta$ is a fitting parameter. This model is radically different from previous proposals, but in good agreement with our calculated results from first principles. ENDABSTRACTS 
The Marcinkiewicz multiplier theorem revisited ENDTITLES We provide a complete proof of an optimal version of the Marcinkiewicz multiplier theorem. ENDABSTRACTS 
A Survey on Workflow Satisfiability, Resiliency, and Related Problems ENDTITLES Workflows specify collections of tasks that must be executed under the responsibility or supervision of human users. Workflow management systems and workflow-driven applications need to enforce security policies in the form of access control, specifying which users can execute which tasks, and authorization constraints, such as Separation of Duty, further restricting the execution of tasks at run-time. Enforcing these policies is crucial to avoid frauds and malicious use, but it may lead to situations where a workflow instance cannot be completed without the violation of the policy. The Workflow Satisfiability Problem (WSP) asks whether there exists an assignment of users to tasks in a workflow such that every task is executed and the policy is not violated. The WSP is inherently hard, but solutions to this problem have a practical application in reconciling business compliance and business continuity. Solutions to related problems, such as workflow resiliency (i.e., whether a workflow instance is still satisfiable even in the absence of users), are important to help in policy design. Several variations of the WSP and similar problems have been defined in the literature and there are many solution methods available. In this paper, we survey the work done on these problems in the past 20 years. ENDABSTRACTS 
Refined restricted inversion sequences ENDTITLES Recently, the study of patterns in inversion sequences was initiated by Corteel-Martinez-Savage-Weselcouch and Mansour-Shattuck independently. Motivated by their works and a double Eulerian equidistribution due to Foata (1977), we investigate several classical statistics on restricted inversion sequences that are either known or conjectured to be enumerated by {\em Catalan}, {\em Large Schr\"oder}, {\em Euler} and {\em Baxter} numbers. One of the two highlights of our results is an intriguing bijection between $021$-avoiding inversion sequences and $(2413,4213)$-avoiding permutations, which proves a sextuple equidistribution involving double Eulerian statistics. The other one is a refinement of a conjecture due to Martinez and Savage that the cardinality of $\I_n(\geq,\geq,&gt;)$ is the $n$-th Baxter number, which is proved via the so-called {\em obstinate kernel method} developed by Bousquet-M\'elou. ENDABSTRACTS 
Equilibria, information and frustration in heterogeneous network games with conflicting preferences ENDTITLES Interactions between people are the basis on which the structure of our society arises as a complex system and, at the same time, are the starting point of any physical description of it. In the last few years, much theoretical research has addressed this issue by combining the physics of complex networks with a description of interactions in terms of evolutionary game theory. We here take this research a step further by introducing a most salient societal factor such as the individuals' preferences, a characteristic that is key to understand much of the social phenomenology these days. We consider a heterogeneous, agent-based model in which agents interact strategically with their neighbors but their preferences and payoffs for the possible actions differ. We study how such a heterogeneous network behaves under evolutionary dynamics and different strategic interactions, namely coordination games and best shot games. With this model we study the emergence of the equilibria predicted analytically in random graphs under best response dynamics, and we extend this test to unexplored contexts like proportional imitation and scale free networks. We show that some theoretically predicted equilibria do not arise in simulations with incomplete Information, and we demonstrate the importance of the graph topology and the payoff function parameters for some games. Finally, we discuss our results with available experimental evidence on coordination games, showing that our model agrees better with the experiment that standard economic theories, and draw hints as to how to maximize social efficiency in situations of conflicting preferences. ENDABSTRACTS 
The Best-or-Worst and the Postdoc problems ENDTITLES We consider two variants of the secretary problem, the\emph{ Best-or-Worst} and the \emph{Postdoc} problems, which are closely related. First, we prove that both variants, in their standard form with binary payoff 1 or 0, share the same optimal stopping rule. We also consider additional cost/perquisites depending on the number of interviewed candidates. In these situations the optimal strategies are very different. Finally, we also focus on the Best-or-Worst variant with different payments depending on whether the selected candidate is the best or the worst. ENDABSTRACTS 
Decrease of Fourier coefficients of stationary measures ENDTITLES Let $\mu$ be a Borel probability measure on $\mathrm{SL}_2(\mathbb R)$ with a finite exponential moment, and assume that the subgroup $\Gamma_{\mu}$ generated by the support of $\mu$ is Zariski dense. Let $\nu$ be the unique $\mu-$stationary measure on $\mathbb P^1_{\mathbb R}$. We prove that the Fourier coefficients $\widehat{\nu}(k)$ of $\nu$ converge to $0$ as $|k|$ tends to infinity. Our proof relies on a generalized renewal theorem for the Cartan projection. ENDABSTRACTS 
Pay-with-a-Selfie, a human-centred digital payment system ENDTITLES Mobile payment systems are increasingly used to simplify the way in which money transfers and transactions can be performed. We argue that, to achieve their full potential as economic boosters in developing countries, mobile payment systems need to rely on new metaphors suitable for the business models, lifestyle, and technology availability conditions of the targeted communities. The Pay-with-a-Group-Selfie (PGS) project, funded by the Melinda &amp; Bill Gates Foundation, has developed a micro-payment system that supports everyday small transactions by extending the reach of, rather than substituting, existing payment frameworks. PGS is based on a simple gesture and a readily understandable metaphor. The gesture - taking a selfie - has become part of the lifestyle of mobile phone users worldwide, including non-technology-savvy ones. The metaphor likens computing two visual shares of the selfie to ripping a banknote in two, a technique used for decades for delayed payment in cash-only markets. PGS is designed to work with devices with limited computational power and when connectivity is patchy or not always available. Thanks to visual cryptography techniques PGS uses for computing the shares, the original selfie can be recomposed simply by stacking the shares, preserving the analogy with re-joining the two parts of the banknote. ENDABSTRACTS 
Magnetotransport in heterostructures of transition metal dichalcogenides and graphene ENDTITLES We use a van-der-Waals pickup technique to fabricate different heterostructures containing WSe$_2$(WS$_2$) and graphene. The heterostructures were structured by plasma etching, contacted by one-dimensional edge contacts and a topgate was deposited. For graphene/WSe$_2$/SiO$_2$ samples we observe mobilities of $\sim$12 000 cm$^2$/Vs. Magnetic field dependent resistance measurements on these samples show a peak in the conductivity at low magnetic field. This dip is attributed to the weak antilocalization\,(WAL) effect, stemming from spin-orbit coupling. Samples where graphene is encapsulated between WSe$_2$(WS$_2$) and hBN show a much higher mobility of up to $\sim$120 000 cm$^2$/Vs. However, in these samples no WAL peak can be observed. We attribute this to a transition from the diffusive to the quasiballistic regime. At low magnetic field a resistance peak appears, which we ascribe to a size effect, due to boundary scattering. Shubnikov-de Haas oscillations in fully encapsulated samples show all integer filling factors, due to complete lifting of the spin and valley degeneracy. ENDABSTRACTS 
Path-dependent Hamilton-Jacobi equations in infinite dimensions ENDTITLES We propose notions of minimax and viscosity solutions for a class of fully nonlinear path-dependent PDEs with nonlinear, monotone, and coercive operators on Hilbert space. Our main result is well-posedness (existence, uniqueness, and stability) for minimax solutions. A particular novelty of our approach is a suitable combination of minimax and viscosity solution techniques. Thereby, we establish a comparison principle for path-dependent PDEs under conditions that are weaker even in the finite-dimensional case. In contrast to most of the related works on PDEs in infinite dimensions, perturbed optimization is entirely avoided. The path-dependent setting itself enables us to circumvent the lack of compactness in infinite-dimensional Hilbert spaces. As an application, our theory makes it possible to employ the dynamic programming approach to study optimal control problems for a fairly general class of (delay) evolution equations in the variational framework. Furthermore, differential games associated to such evolution equations can be investigated following the Krasovskii-Subbotin approach similarly as in finite dimensions. ENDABSTRACTS 
A Minimal Developmental Model Can Increase Evolvability in Soft Robots ENDTITLES Different subsystems of organisms adapt over many time scales, such as rapid changes in the nervous system (learning), slower morphological and neurological change over the lifetime of the organism (postnatal development), and change over many generations (evolution). Much work has focused on instantiating learning or evolution in robots, but relatively little on development. Although many theories have been forwarded as to how development can aid evolution, it is difficult to isolate each such proposed mechanism. Thus, here we introduce a minimal yet embodied model of development: the body of the robot changes over its lifetime, yet growth is not influenced by the environment. We show that even this simple developmental model confers evolvability because it allows evolution to sweep over a larger range of body plans than an equivalent non-developmental system, and subsequent heterochronic mutations 'lock in' this body plan in more morphologically-static descendants. Future work will involve gradually complexifying the developmental model to determine when and how such added complexity increases evolvability. ENDABSTRACTS 
The vanishing cycles of curves in toric surfaces II ENDTITLES We resume the study initiated in \cite{CL}. For a generic curve $C$ in an ample linear system $\vert \mathcal{L} \vert$ on a toric surface $X$, a vanishing cycle of $C$ is an isotopy class of simple closed curve that can be contracted to a point along a degeneration of $C$ to a nodal curve in $\vert \mathcal{L} \vert$. The obstructions that prevent a simple closed curve in $C$ from being a vanishing cycle are encoded by the adjoint line bundle $K_X \otimes \mathcal{L}$. \\ In this paper, we consider the linear systems carrying the two simplest types of obstruction. Geometrically, these obstructions manifest on $C$ respectively as an hyperelliptic involution and as a Spin structure. In both cases, we determine all the vanishing cycles by investigating the associated monodromy maps, whose target space is the mapping class group $MCG(C)$. We show that the image of the monodromy is the subgroup of $MCG(C)$ preserving respectively the hyperelliptic involution and the Spin structure. In particular, we provide an explicit finite set of generators for the Spin mapping class group. The results obtained here support the Conjecture $1$ in \cite{CL} aiming to describe all the vanishing cycles for any pair $(X, \mathcal{L})$. ENDABSTRACTS 
A Study of Concurrency Bugs and Advanced Development Support for Actor-based Programs ENDTITLES The actor model is an attractive foundation for developing concurrent applications because actors are isolated concurrent entities that communicate through asynchronous messages and do not share state. Thus, they avoid common concurrency bugs such as data races. However, they are not immune to concurrency bugs in general. This paper studies concurrency bugs in actor-based programs reported in literature. We define a taxonomy for these bugs. Furthermore, we analyze the bugs to identify the patterns causing them as well as their observable behavior. Based on our taxonomy, we further analyze the literature and find that current approaches to static analysis and testing focus on communication deadlocks and message protocol violations. However, they do not provide solutions to identify livelocks and behavioral deadlocks. We propose a research roadmap of the main debugging techniques that can help to support the development of actor-based programs. ENDABSTRACTS 
Testing isomorphism of lattices over CM-orders ENDTITLES A CM-order is a reduced order equipped with an involution that mimics complex conjugation. The Witt-Picard group of such an order is a certain group of ideal classes that is closely related to the "minus part" of the class group. We present a deterministic polynomial-time algorithm for the following problem, which may be viewed as a special case of the principal ideal testing problem: given a CM-order, decide whether two given elements of its Witt-Picard group are equal. In order to prevent coefficient blow-up, the algorithm operates with lattices rather than with ideals. An important ingredient is a technique introduced by Gentry and Szydlo in a cryptographic context. Our application of it to lattices over CM-orders hinges upon a novel existence theorem for auxiliary ideals, which we deduce from a result of Konyagin and Pomerance in elementary number theory. ENDABSTRACTS 
Sustained state-independent quantum contextual correlations from a single ion ENDTITLES We use a single trapped-ion qutrit to demonstrate the violation of an input-state-independent non-contextuality inequality using a sequence of randomly chosen quantum non-demolition projective measurements. We concatenate 54 million sequential measurements of 13 observables, and violate an optimal non-contextual bound by 214 standard deviations. We use the same dataset to characterize imperfections including signaling and repeatability of the measurements. The experimental sequence was generated in real time with a quantum random number generator integrated into our control system to select the subsequent observable with a latency below 50 {\mu}s, which can be used to constrain hidden-variable models that might describe our results. The state-recycling experimental procedure is resilient to noise, self-correcting and independent of the qutrit state, substantiating the fact that quantumness is connected to measurements as opposed to designated states. ENDABSTRACTS 
Strong convergence rates for Euler approximations to a class of stochastic path-dependent volatility models ENDTITLES We consider a class of stochastic path-dependent volatility models where the stochastic volatility, whose square follows the Cox-Ingersoll-Ross model, is multiplied by a (leverage) function of the spot price, its running maximum, and time. We propose a Monte Carlo simulation scheme which combines a log-Euler scheme for the spot process with the full truncation Euler scheme or the backward Euler-Maruyama scheme for the squared stochastic volatility component. Under some mild regularity assumptions and a condition on the Feller ratio, we establish the strong convergence with order 1/2 (up to a logarithmic factor) of the approximation process up to a critical time. The model studied in this paper contains as special cases Heston-type stochastic-local volatility models, the state-of-the-art in derivative pricing, and a relatively new class of path-dependent volatility models. The present paper is the first to prove the convergence of the popular Euler schemes with a positive rate, which is moreover consistent with that for Lipschitz coefficients and hence optimal. ENDABSTRACTS 
Decomposing $C_4$-free graphs under degree constraints ENDTITLES A celebrated theorem of Stiebitz asserts that any graph with minimum degree at least $s+t+1$ can be partitioned into two parts which induce two subgraphs with minimum degree at least $s$ and $t$, respectively. This resolved a conjecture of Thomassen. In this paper, we prove that for $s,t\geq 2$, if a graph $G$ contains no cycle of length four and has minimum degree at least $s+t-1$, then $G$ can be partitioned into two parts which induce two subgraphs with minimum degree at least $s$ and $t$, respectively. This improves the result of Diwan, who proved the same statement for graphs of girth at least five. Our proof also works for the case of variable functions, in which the bounds are sharp as showing by some polarity graphs. As a corollary, it follows that any graph containing no cycle of length four with minimum degree at least $k+1$ contains $k$ vertex-disjoint cycles. ENDABSTRACTS 
A Self-Adaptive Proposal Model for Temporal Action Detection based on Reinforcement Learning ENDTITLES Existing action detection algorithms usually generate action proposals through an extensive search over the video at multiple temporal scales, which brings about huge computational overhead and deviates from the human perception procedure. We argue that the process of detecting actions should be naturally one of observation and refinement: observe the current window and refine the span of attended window to cover true action regions. In this paper, we propose an active action proposal model that learns to find actions through continuously adjusting the temporal bounds in a self-adaptive way. The whole process can be deemed as an agent, which is firstly placed at a position in the video at random, adopts a sequence of transformations on the current attended region to discover actions according to a learned policy. We utilize reinforcement learning, especially the Deep Q-learning algorithm to learn the agent's decision policy. In addition, we use temporal pooling operation to extract more effective feature representation for the long temporal window, and design a regression network to adjust the position offsets between predicted results and the ground truth. Experiment results on THUMOS 2014 validate the effectiveness of the proposed approach, which can achieve competitive performance with current action detection algorithms via much fewer proposals. ENDABSTRACTS 
Constant Factor Optimal Multi-Robot Path Planning in Well-Connected Environments ENDTITLES Fast algorithms for optimal multi-robot path planning are sought after in many real-world applications. Known methods, however, generally do not simultaneously guarantee good solution optimality and fast run time (e.g., polynomial). In this work, we develop a low-polynomial running time algorithm, called SplitAndGroup, that solves the multi-robot path planning problem on grids and grid-like environments and produces constant factor time- and distance-optimal solutions, in expectation. In particular, SplitAndGroup computes solutions with sub-linear makespan. SplitAndGroup is capable of handling cases when the density of robot is extremely high - in a graph-theoretic setting, the algorithm supports cases where all vertices of the underlying graph are occupied by robots. SplitAndGroup attains its desirable properties through a careful combination of divide-and-conquer technique and network flow based methods for routing the robots. ENDABSTRACTS 
When a smooth self-map of a semi-simple Lie group can realize the least number of periodic points ENDTITLES There are two algebraic lower bounds of the number of n-periodic points of a self-map f:M\to M of a compact smooth manifold of dimension at least 3 : NF_n(f)=min {#Fix(g^n) ;g\sim f; g continuous} and NJD_n(f)=min {#Fix}(g^n) ;g\sim f; g smooth}}. In general NJD_n(f) may be much greater than NF_n(f). We show that for a self-map of a semi-simple Lie group, inducing the identity fundamental group homomorphism, the equality NF_n(f)=NJD_n(f) holds for all n iff all eigenvalues of a quotient cohomology homomorphism induced by f have moduli \le 1. ENDABSTRACTS 
Characterization of the ranking induced by the Logarithmic Least Squares Method ENDTITLES An axiomatic approach is applied for the problem of extracting a ranking of the alternatives from a pairwise comparison ratio matrix. The ordering induced by the Logarithmic Least Squares, or row geometric mean, Method is proved to be uniquely determined by anonymity (independence of the labelling of alternatives), responsiveness (a kind of monotonicity property) and aggregation invariance, requiring the preservation of the pairwise ranking between two alternatives if unanimous individual preferences are combined by geometric mean. ENDABSTRACTS 
On the Factorization of Nonlinear Recurrences in Modules ENDTITLES For rings R with identity, we define a class of nonlinear higher order recurrences on unitary left R-modules that include linear recurrences as special cases. We obtain conditions under which a recurrence of order k+1 in this class is equivalent to a pair, known as a semiconjugate factorization, that consists of a recurrence of order k and a recurrence of order 1. We show that such a factorization is possible whenever R contains certain sequences of units. Further, if the coefficients of the original recurrence in R are independent of the index then we show that the semiconjugate factorization exists if two characteristic polynomials share a common root that is a unit in R. We use this fact to show that an overlapping factorization of these polynomials in an integral domain R yields a semiconjugate factorization of the corresponding recurrence in the module. These results are applicable to systems of higher order, nonlinear difference equations in direct products of rings. Such systems may be represented as higher order equations in a module over the ring. ENDABSTRACTS 
On the Factorization of Nonlinear Recurrences in Modules ENDTITLES For rings R with identity, we define a class of nonlinear higher order recurrences on unitary left R-modules that include linear recurrences as special cases. We obtain conditions under which a recurrence of order k+1 in this class is equivalent to a pair, known as a semiconjugate factorization, that consists of a recurrence of order k and a recurrence of order 1. We show that such a factorization is possible whenever R contains certain sequences of units. Further, if the coefficients of the original recurrence in R are independent of the index then we show that the semiconjugate factorization exists if two characteristic polynomials share a common root that is a unit in R. We use this fact to show that an overlapping factorization of these polynomials in an integral domain R yields a semiconjugate factorization of the corresponding recurrence in the module. These results are applicable to systems of higher order, nonlinear difference equations in direct products of rings. Such systems may be represented as higher order equations in a module over the ring. ENDABSTRACTS 
Multipole resonances and directional scattering by hyperbolic-media antennas ENDTITLES We propose to use optical antennas made out of natural hyperbolic material hexagonal boron nitride (hBN), and we demonstrate that this medium is a promising alternative to plasmonic and all-dielectric materials for realizing efficient subwavelength scatterers and metasurfaces based on them. We theoretically show that particles out of hyperbolic medium possess different resonances enabled by the support of high-k waves and their reflection from the particle boundaries. Among those resonances, there are electric quadrupole excitations, which cause magnetic resonance of the particle similar to what occurs in high-refractive-index particles. Excitations of the particle resonances are accompanied by the drop in the reflection from nanoparticle array to near-zero value, which can be ascribed to resonant Kerker effect. If particles are arranged in the spacer array with period d, narrow lattice resonances are possible at wavelength d, d/2, d/3 etc. This provides an additional degree of control and possibility to excite resonances at the wavelength defined by the array spacing. For the hBN particle with hyperbolic dispersion, we show that the full range of the resonances, including magnetic resonance and a decrease of reflection, is possible. ENDABSTRACTS 
Multipole resonances and directional scattering by hyperbolic-media antennas ENDTITLES We propose to use optical antennas made out of natural hyperbolic material hexagonal boron nitride (hBN), and we demonstrate that this medium is a promising alternative to plasmonic and all-dielectric materials for realizing efficient subwavelength scatterers and metasurfaces based on them. We theoretically show that particles out of hyperbolic medium possess different resonances enabled by the support of high-k waves and their reflection from the particle boundaries. Among those resonances, there are electric quadrupole excitations, which cause magnetic resonance of the particle similar to what occurs in high-refractive-index particles. Excitations of the particle resonances are accompanied by the drop in the reflection from nanoparticle array to near-zero value, which can be ascribed to resonant Kerker effect. If particles are arranged in the spacer array with period d, narrow lattice resonances are possible at wavelength d, d/2, d/3 etc. This provides an additional degree of control and possibility to excite resonances at the wavelength defined by the array spacing. For the hBN particle with hyperbolic dispersion, we show that the full range of the resonances, including magnetic resonance and a decrease of reflection, is possible. ENDABSTRACTS 
Scalable Multi-Class Gaussian Process Classification using Expectation Propagation ENDTITLES This paper describes an expectation propagation (EP) method for multi-class classification with Gaussian processes that scales well to very large datasets. In such a method the estimate of the log-marginal-likelihood involves a sum across the data instances. This enables efficient training using stochastic gradients and mini-batches. When this type of training is used, the computational cost does not depend on the number of data instances $N$. Furthermore, extra assumptions in the approximate inference process make the memory cost independent of $N$. The consequence is that the proposed EP method can be used on datasets with millions of instances. We compare empirically this method with alternative approaches that approximate the required computations using variational inference. The results show that it performs similar or even better than these techniques, which sometimes give significantly worse predictive distributions in terms of the test log-likelihood. Besides this, the training process of the proposed approach also seems to converge in a smaller number of iterations. ENDABSTRACTS 
Membrane separation study for methane-hydrogen gas mixtures by molecular simulations ENDTITLES Direct simulation results for stationary gas transport through pure silica zeolite membranes (MFI, LTA and DDR types) are presented using a hybrid, non-equilibrium molecular dynamics simulation methodology introduced recently. The intermolecular potential models for the investigated CH$_{4}$ and H$_{2}$ gases were taken from literature. For different zeolites, the same atomic (Si and O) interaction parameters were used, and the membranes were constructed according to their real (MFI, LTA, or DDR) crystal structures. A realistic nature of the applied potential parameters was tested by performing equilibrium adsorption simulations and by comparing the calculated results with the data of experimental adsorption isotherms. The results of transport simulations carried out at 25$^0$C and 125$^0$C, and at 2.5, 5 or 10 bar clearly show that the permeation selectivities of CH$_{4}$ are higher than the corresponding permeability ratios of pure components, and significantly differ from the equilibrium selectivities in mixture adsorptions. We experienced a transport selectivity in favor of CH$_{4}$ in only one case. A large discrepancy between different types of selectivity data can be attributed to dissimilar mobilities of the components in a membrane, their dependence on the loading of a membrane, and the unlike adsorption preferences of the gas molecules. ENDABSTRACTS 
Membrane separation study for methane-hydrogen gas mixtures by molecular simulations ENDTITLES Direct simulation results for stationary gas transport through pure silica zeolite membranes (MFI, LTA and DDR types) are presented using a hybrid, non-equilibrium molecular dynamics simulation methodology introduced recently. The intermolecular potential models for the investigated CH$_{4}$ and H$_{2}$ gases were taken from literature. For different zeolites, the same atomic (Si and O) interaction parameters were used, and the membranes were constructed according to their real (MFI, LTA, or DDR) crystal structures. A realistic nature of the applied potential parameters was tested by performing equilibrium adsorption simulations and by comparing the calculated results with the data of experimental adsorption isotherms. The results of transport simulations carried out at 25$^0$C and 125$^0$C, and at 2.5, 5 or 10 bar clearly show that the permeation selectivities of CH$_{4}$ are higher than the corresponding permeability ratios of pure components, and significantly differ from the equilibrium selectivities in mixture adsorptions. We experienced a transport selectivity in favor of CH$_{4}$ in only one case. A large discrepancy between different types of selectivity data can be attributed to dissimilar mobilities of the components in a membrane, their dependence on the loading of a membrane, and the unlike adsorption preferences of the gas molecules. ENDABSTRACTS 
On the properties of a single OPLS-UA model curcumin molecule in water, methanol and dimethyl sulfoxide. Molecular dynamics computer simulation results ENDTITLES The properties of model solutions consisting of a solute --- single curcumin molecule in water, methanol and dimethyl sulfoxide solvents have been studied using molecular dynamics (MD) computer simulations in the isobaric-isothermal ensemble. The united atom OPLS force field (OPLS-UA) model for curcumin molecule proposed by us recently [J. Mol. Liq., 2016, 223, 707] in combination with the SPC/E water, and the OPLS-UA type models for methanol and dimethyl sulfoxide have been applied. We have described changes of the internal structure of the solute molecule induced by different solvent media in very detail. The pair distribution functions between particular fragments of a solute molecule with solvent particles have been analyzed. Statistical features of the hydrogen bonding between different species were explored. Finally, we have obtained a self-diffusion coefficient of curcumin molecules in three model solvents. ENDABSTRACTS 
On the properties of a single OPLS-UA model curcumin molecule in water, methanol and dimethyl sulfoxide. Molecular dynamics computer simulation results ENDTITLES The properties of model solutions consisting of a solute --- single curcumin molecule in water, methanol and dimethyl sulfoxide solvents have been studied using molecular dynamics (MD) computer simulations in the isobaric-isothermal ensemble. The united atom OPLS force field (OPLS-UA) model for curcumin molecule proposed by us recently [J. Mol. Liq., 2016, 223, 707] in combination with the SPC/E water, and the OPLS-UA type models for methanol and dimethyl sulfoxide have been applied. We have described changes of the internal structure of the solute molecule induced by different solvent media in very detail. The pair distribution functions between particular fragments of a solute molecule with solvent particles have been analyzed. Statistical features of the hydrogen bonding between different species were explored. Finally, we have obtained a self-diffusion coefficient of curcumin molecules in three model solvents. ENDABSTRACTS 
On the non-existence of $srg(76,21,2,7)$ ENDTITLES We present a new non-existence proof for the strongly regular graph $G$ with parameters $(76,21,2,7)$, using the unit vector representation of the graph. ENDABSTRACTS 
On the non-existence of $srg(76,21,2,7)$ ENDTITLES We present a new non-existence proof for the strongly regular graph $G$ with parameters $(76,21,2,7)$, using the unit vector representation of the graph. ENDABSTRACTS 
Physical-depth architectural requirements for generating universal photonic cluster states ENDTITLES Most leading proposals for linear-optical quantum computing (LOQC) use cluster states, which act as a universal resource for measurement-based (one-way) quantum computation (MBQC). In ballistic approaches to LOQC, cluster states are generated passively from small entangled resource states using so-called fusion operations. Results from percolation theory have previously been used to argue that universal cluster states can be generated in the ballistic approach using schemes which exceed the critical threshold for percolation, but these results consider cluster states with unbounded size. Here we consider how successful percolation can be maintained using a physical architecture with fixed physical depth, assuming that the cluster state is continuously generated and measured, and therefore that only a finite portion of it is visible at any one point in time. We show that universal LOQC can be implemented using a constant-size device with modest physical depth, and that percolation can be exploited using simple pathfinding strategies without the need for high-complexity algorithms. ENDABSTRACTS 
Physical-depth architectural requirements for generating universal photonic cluster states ENDTITLES Most leading proposals for linear-optical quantum computing (LOQC) use cluster states, which act as a universal resource for measurement-based (one-way) quantum computation (MBQC). In ballistic approaches to LOQC, cluster states are generated passively from small entangled resource states using so-called fusion operations. Results from percolation theory have previously been used to argue that universal cluster states can be generated in the ballistic approach using schemes which exceed the critical threshold for percolation, but these results consider cluster states with unbounded size. Here we consider how successful percolation can be maintained using a physical architecture with fixed physical depth, assuming that the cluster state is continuously generated and measured, and therefore that only a finite portion of it is visible at any one point in time. We show that universal LOQC can be implemented using a constant-size device with modest physical depth, and that percolation can be exploited using simple pathfinding strategies without the need for high-complexity algorithms. ENDABSTRACTS 
Mapping properties for operator-valued pseudodifferential operators on toroidal Besov spaces ENDTITLES In this paper, we consider pseudodifferential operators on the torus with operator-valued symbols and prove continuity properties on vector-valued toroidal Besov spaces, without assumptions on the underlying Banach spaces. The symbols are of limited smoothness with respect to $x$ and satisfy a finite number of estimates on the discrete derivatives. The proof of the main result is based on a description of the operator as a convolution operator with a kernel representation which is related to the dyadic decomposition appearing in the definition of the Besov space. ENDABSTRACTS 
Mapping properties for operator-valued pseudodifferential operators on toroidal Besov spaces ENDTITLES In this paper, we consider pseudodifferential operators on the torus with operator-valued symbols and prove continuity properties on vector-valued toroidal Besov spaces, without assumptions on the underlying Banach spaces. The symbols are of limited smoothness with respect to $x$ and satisfy a finite number of estimates on the discrete derivatives. The proof of the main result is based on a description of the operator as a convolution operator with a kernel representation which is related to the dyadic decomposition appearing in the definition of the Besov space. ENDABSTRACTS 
Targeted Undersmoothing ENDTITLES This paper proposes a post-model selection inference procedure, called targeted undersmoothing, designed to construct uniformly valid confidence sets for a broad class of functionals of sparse high-dimensional statistical models. These include dense functionals, which may potentially depend on all elements of an unknown high-dimensional parameter. The proposed confidence sets are based on an initially selected model and two additionally selected models, an upper model and a lower model, which enlarge the initially selected model. We illustrate application of the procedure in two empirical examples. The first example considers estimation of heterogeneous treatment effects using data from the Job Training Partnership Act of 1982, and the second example looks at estimating profitability from a mailing strategy based on estimated heterogeneous treatment effects in a direct mail marketing campaign. We also provide evidence on the finite sample performance of the proposed targeted undersmoothing procedure through a series of simulation experiments. ENDABSTRACTS 
Targeted Undersmoothing ENDTITLES This paper proposes a post-model selection inference procedure, called targeted undersmoothing, designed to construct uniformly valid confidence sets for a broad class of functionals of sparse high-dimensional statistical models. These include dense functionals, which may potentially depend on all elements of an unknown high-dimensional parameter. The proposed confidence sets are based on an initially selected model and two additionally selected models, an upper model and a lower model, which enlarge the initially selected model. We illustrate application of the procedure in two empirical examples. The first example considers estimation of heterogeneous treatment effects using data from the Job Training Partnership Act of 1982, and the second example looks at estimating profitability from a mailing strategy based on estimated heterogeneous treatment effects in a direct mail marketing campaign. We also provide evidence on the finite sample performance of the proposed targeted undersmoothing procedure through a series of simulation experiments. ENDABSTRACTS 
Many-Body effects in the snaking instability of bent dark solitons ENDTITLES The beyond mean-field dynamics of a bent dark soliton embedded in a two-dimensional repulsively interacting Bose-Einstein condensate is explored. We examine the case of a single bent dark soliton comparing the mean-field dynamics to a correlated approach, the Multi-Configuration Time-Dependent Hartree Method for bosons. The dynamical manifestation of the "snaking" instability is observed, signaling the onset of fragmentation which becomes significant during the vortex nucleation. In contrast to the mean-field approximation "filling" of the vortex core is observed, leading in turn to the formation of filled-core vortices, instead of the mean-field vortex-antivortex pairs. The resulting smearing effect in the density is a rather generic feature, occurring when solitonic structures are exposed to quantum fluctuations. Here, we show that this filling owes its existence to the dynamical building of an antidark structure developed in the next-to-leading order orbital. Additionally, a variety of excitations including vortices, oblique dark solitons, and open ring dark soliton-like structures building upon higher-lying orbitals is observed. We demonstrate that signatures of the higher-lying orbital excitations emerge in the total density, and can be clearly captured by inspecting the one-body coherence. In the latter context, the localization of one-body correlations exposes the existence of the multi-orbital vortex-antidark structure. ENDABSTRACTS 
Many-Body effects in the snaking instability of bent dark solitons ENDTITLES The beyond mean-field dynamics of a bent dark soliton embedded in a two-dimensional repulsively interacting Bose-Einstein condensate is explored. We examine the case of a single bent dark soliton comparing the mean-field dynamics to a correlated approach, the Multi-Configuration Time-Dependent Hartree Method for bosons. The dynamical manifestation of the "snaking" instability is observed, signaling the onset of fragmentation which becomes significant during the vortex nucleation. In contrast to the mean-field approximation "filling" of the vortex core is observed, leading in turn to the formation of filled-core vortices, instead of the mean-field vortex-antivortex pairs. The resulting smearing effect in the density is a rather generic feature, occurring when solitonic structures are exposed to quantum fluctuations. Here, we show that this filling owes its existence to the dynamical building of an antidark structure developed in the next-to-leading order orbital. Additionally, a variety of excitations including vortices, oblique dark solitons, and open ring dark soliton-like structures building upon higher-lying orbitals is observed. We demonstrate that signatures of the higher-lying orbital excitations emerge in the total density, and can be clearly captured by inspecting the one-body coherence. In the latter context, the localization of one-body correlations exposes the existence of the multi-orbital vortex-antidark structure. ENDABSTRACTS 
Spatial coherence measurement and partially coherent diffractive imaging ENDTITLES The complete characterization of spatial coherence is difficult because the mutual coherence function is a complex-valued function of four independent variables. This difficulty limits the ability of controlling and optimizing spatial coherence in a broad range of key applications. Here we propose a method for measuring the complete mutual coherence function, which does not require any prior knowledge and can be scaled to measure arbitrary coherence properties for any wavelength. Our method can also be used to retrieve objects illuminated by partially coherent beam with unknown coherence properties. This study is particularly useful for coherent diffractive imaging of nanoscale structures in the X-ray or electron regime. Our method is not limited by any assumption about the illumination and hence lays the foundation for a branch of new diffractive imaging algorithms. ENDABSTRACTS 
Spatial coherence measurement and partially coherent diffractive imaging ENDTITLES The complete characterization of spatial coherence is difficult because the mutual coherence function is a complex-valued function of four independent variables. This difficulty limits the ability of controlling and optimizing spatial coherence in a broad range of key applications. Here we propose a method for measuring the complete mutual coherence function, which does not require any prior knowledge and can be scaled to measure arbitrary coherence properties for any wavelength. Our method can also be used to retrieve objects illuminated by partially coherent beam with unknown coherence properties. This study is particularly useful for coherent diffractive imaging of nanoscale structures in the X-ray or electron regime. Our method is not limited by any assumption about the illumination and hence lays the foundation for a branch of new diffractive imaging algorithms. ENDABSTRACTS 
Vortex-Ring-Induced Internal Mixing Upon the Coalescence of Initially Stationary Droplets ENDTITLES This study employs an improved volume of fluid method and adaptive mesh refinement algorithm to numerically investigate the internal jet-like mixing upon the coalescence of two initially stationary droplets of unequal sizes. The emergence of the internal jet is attributed to the formation of a main vortex ring, as the jet-like structure shows a strong correlation with the main vortex ring inside the merged droplet. By tracking the evolution of the main vortex ring together with its circulation, we identified two mechanisms that are essential to the internal-jet formation: the vortex-ring growth and the vortex-ring detachment. Recognizing that the manifestation of the vortex-ring-induced jet physically relies on the competition between the convection and viscous dissipation of the vortex ring, we further developed and substantiated a vortex-ring-based Reynolds number criterion to interpret the occurrence of the internal jet at various Ohnesorge numbers and size ratios. For the merged droplet with apparent jet formation, the average mixing rate after jet formation increases monotonically with the vortex-ring Reynolds number, which therefore serves as an approximate measure of the jet strength. In this respect, stronger internal jet is responsible for enhanced mixing of the merged droplet. ENDABSTRACTS 
Vortex-Ring-Induced Internal Mixing Upon the Coalescence of Initially Stationary Droplets ENDTITLES This study employs an improved volume of fluid method and adaptive mesh refinement algorithm to numerically investigate the internal jet-like mixing upon the coalescence of two initially stationary droplets of unequal sizes. The emergence of the internal jet is attributed to the formation of a main vortex ring, as the jet-like structure shows a strong correlation with the main vortex ring inside the merged droplet. By tracking the evolution of the main vortex ring together with its circulation, we identified two mechanisms that are essential to the internal-jet formation: the vortex-ring growth and the vortex-ring detachment. Recognizing that the manifestation of the vortex-ring-induced jet physically relies on the competition between the convection and viscous dissipation of the vortex ring, we further developed and substantiated a vortex-ring-based Reynolds number criterion to interpret the occurrence of the internal jet at various Ohnesorge numbers and size ratios. For the merged droplet with apparent jet formation, the average mixing rate after jet formation increases monotonically with the vortex-ring Reynolds number, which therefore serves as an approximate measure of the jet strength. In this respect, stronger internal jet is responsible for enhanced mixing of the merged droplet. ENDABSTRACTS 
Attosecond delays in laser-assisted photodetachment from closed-shell negative ions ENDTITLES We study laser-assisted photodetachment time delays by attosecond pulse trains from the closed-shell negative ions F- and Cl-. We investigate the separability of the delay into two contributions: (i) the Wigner-like delay associated with one-photon ionization by the attosecond pulse train and (ii) the delay associated with exchange of an additional laser photon in the presence of the potential of the remaining target. Based on the asymptotic form of the wave packet, the latter term is expected to be negligible because the ion is neutralized leading to a vanishing laser-ion interaction with increasing electron-atom separation. While this asymptotic behavior is verified at high photoelectron energies, we also quantify sharp deviations at low photoelectron energies. Further, these low-energy delays are clearly different for the two studied anions indicating a breakdown of the universality of laser-ion induced delays. The fact that the short-range potential can induce a delay of as much as 50 as can have implications for the interpretation of delay measurements also in other systems that lack long-range potential. ENDABSTRACTS 
Attosecond delays in laser-assisted photodetachment from closed-shell negative ions ENDTITLES We study laser-assisted photodetachment time delays by attosecond pulse trains from the closed-shell negative ions F- and Cl-. We investigate the separability of the delay into two contributions: (i) the Wigner-like delay associated with one-photon ionization by the attosecond pulse train and (ii) the delay associated with exchange of an additional laser photon in the presence of the potential of the remaining target. Based on the asymptotic form of the wave packet, the latter term is expected to be negligible because the ion is neutralized leading to a vanishing laser-ion interaction with increasing electron-atom separation. While this asymptotic behavior is verified at high photoelectron energies, we also quantify sharp deviations at low photoelectron energies. Further, these low-energy delays are clearly different for the two studied anions indicating a breakdown of the universality of laser-ion induced delays. The fact that the short-range potential can induce a delay of as much as 50 as can have implications for the interpretation of delay measurements also in other systems that lack long-range potential. ENDABSTRACTS 
Virtual Relationships: Short- and Long-run Evidence from BitCoin and Altcoin Markets ENDTITLES This study empirically examines interdependencies between BitCoin and altcoin markets in the short- and long-run. We apply time-series analytical mechanisms to daily data of 17 virtual currencies (BitCoin + 16 alternative virtual currencies) and two Altcoin price indices for the period 2013-2016. Our empirical findings confirm that indeed BitCoin and Altcoin markets are interdependent. The BitCoin-Altcoin price relationship is significantly stronger in the short-run than in the long-run. We cannot fully confirm the hypothesis that the BitCoin price relationship is stronger with those Altcoins that are more similar in their price formation mechanism to BitCoin. In the long-run, macro-financial indicators determine the altcoin price formation to a greater degree than BitCoin does. The virtual currency supply is exogenous and therefore plays only a limited role in the price formation. ENDABSTRACTS 
Virtual Relationships: Short- and Long-run Evidence from BitCoin and Altcoin Markets ENDTITLES This study empirically examines interdependencies between BitCoin and altcoin markets in the short- and long-run. We apply time-series analytical mechanisms to daily data of 17 virtual currencies (BitCoin + 16 alternative virtual currencies) and two Altcoin price indices for the period 2013-2016. Our empirical findings confirm that indeed BitCoin and Altcoin markets are interdependent. The BitCoin-Altcoin price relationship is significantly stronger in the short-run than in the long-run. We cannot fully confirm the hypothesis that the BitCoin price relationship is stronger with those Altcoins that are more similar in their price formation mechanism to BitCoin. In the long-run, macro-financial indicators determine the altcoin price formation to a greater degree than BitCoin does. The virtual currency supply is exogenous and therefore plays only a limited role in the price formation. ENDABSTRACTS 
Distributed Matching between Individuals and Activities with Additively Separable Preferences ENDTITLES We aim at providing a social network such that users form groups to practice together some activities. In this paper, we introduce a formal framework for coalition formation which is suitable for our usecase. We restrict ourselves to additively separable preferences in order to propose a distributed matching algorithm. We demonstrate that its outcome is Pareto-optimal. Our experiments shows we reach a better outcome than the classical local search techniques and that the distribution of our algorithm speeds up its runtime. ENDABSTRACTS 
Distributed Matching between Individuals and Activities with Additively Separable Preferences ENDTITLES We aim at providing a social network such that users form groups to practice together some activities. In this paper, we introduce a formal framework for coalition formation which is suitable for our usecase. We restrict ourselves to additively separable preferences in order to propose a distributed matching algorithm. We demonstrate that its outcome is Pareto-optimal. Our experiments shows we reach a better outcome than the classical local search techniques and that the distribution of our algorithm speeds up its runtime. ENDABSTRACTS 
Restricted inversion sequences and enhanced $3$-noncrossing partitions ENDTITLES We prove a conjecture due independently to Yan and Martinez-Savage that asserts inversion sequences with no weakly decreasing subsequence of length $3$ and enhanced $3$-noncrossing partitions have the same cardinality. Our approach applies both the generating tree technique and the so-called obstinate kernel method developed by Bousquet-M\'elou. One application of this equinumerosity is a discovery of an intriguing identity involving numbers of classical and enhanced $3$-noncrossing partitions. ENDABSTRACTS 
Restricted inversion sequences and enhanced $3$-noncrossing partitions ENDTITLES We prove a conjecture due independently to Yan and Martinez-Savage that asserts inversion sequences with no weakly decreasing subsequence of length $3$ and enhanced $3$-noncrossing partitions have the same cardinality. Our approach applies both the generating tree technique and the so-called obstinate kernel method developed by Bousquet-M\'elou. One application of this equinumerosity is a discovery of an intriguing identity involving numbers of classical and enhanced $3$-noncrossing partitions. ENDABSTRACTS 
